Meanwhile, a survey carried out by Universitetsläraren shows that two out of three higher education institutions...
Load more articles News Opinion News Opinion Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish Anders Jinneklint , Editor-in-chief & Publisher Linus Hellersted t , Editor & Deputy Publisher sulf.se Linkedin Articles and images are protected under copyright law.
Reprinting or other copying is prohibited.
Quote us, but please indicate the source.

Not all Swedish embassies and consulates-general handle migration cases, so it is important to check which one you should contact: What country or territory do you live in? Select Select Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia- and Hercegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cap Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxemburg Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solmon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Türkiye Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe More information to prepare for your visit, such as information about booking an appointment, can be found on the embassies’ website: Swedish embassies and consulates-general External link.

Digital passport check In some cases, the Swedish Migration Agency will notify you that you must present your passport for a digital passport check via an app.
If you are granted a residence permit, you will be fingerprinted and photographed at one of the Swedish Migration Agency’s service centres once you have arrived in Sweden.
If you present your passport digitally, but have also been called in for an interview, you need to book an appointment to visit an embassy or consulate-general.
During this visit, you may also need to provide fingerprints and have your picture taken.

Please log in here to leave a comment.
go 2025/10/01 14:01 How about speed up absurd waiting time for permanent residency for PhDs if Sweden values them so much? Waiting time is now 8 months, while for work permits it's 1 month! And this waiting time is a gamble on when they open your case and whether there's enough time remaining in your contract.

There are many things that affect the waiting time, for example whether your application is complete to begin with or whether we need to request more information, or whether we need to check with other authorities when investigating your case.
Here we show statistics on how long it has taken for people who have applied for the same permit as you.
The statistics are based on cases decided in the last 12 months.

Complete applications 75% of recently decided cases have been decided within: 1 months Incomplete applications 75% of recently decided cases have been decided within: 3 months Can I get a residence permit if I am in Sweden right now? For most residence permits, you must be outside Sweden when you receive a decision about a first-time application.
In some cases, you can apply for a residence permit while you are in Sweden with another valid Swedish residence permit.
If any of the following describe your situation, you can apply for a residence permit while you are in Sweden: You have a permit for higher education studies.

See Also Advertisement The Local Europe AB Västmannagatan 43 113 25 Stockholm Sweden The Local About us Contact us News Archive Search articles Find jobs in Sweden Find a rental in Sweden Post a job ad Advertise with us Membership Login Become a member Newsletters Help Centre Gift Vouchers Educational access Corporate access Popular Topics Latest News Malmö Gothenburg Politics Working in Sweden Learning Swedish All topics Get daily news straight in your inbox By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
We will use your email address to send you newsletters as well as information and offers related to your account.
2025 The Local, All Rights Reserved.

Read more about digital passport check Present your passport and get fingerprinted at the embassy If you are not offered a digital passport check, we will ask you to book an appointment to present your passport at the embassy or consulate-general you selected in your application.
If you need an entry visa to travel to Sweden, you may also be fingerprinted and photographed during the same visit.
You are waiting for a decision – You have applied for the first time You receive our decision As soon as we have made a decision, you will receive an email or letter stating whether you have been granted a residence permit or if your application has been rejected.

You pay the application fee when you submit your application.
Once you have submitted your application, it will be sent to the Swedish Migration Agency.
If you apply from within Sweden, you can submit the application by post If you have a residence permit for research in another EU country and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden, or if you have a permit for studies, a work permit, or a permit to run your own business in Sweden, you can apply while you are in Sweden.
In that case, you can submit or send in your application together with the documents you must attach.

Copyright © 2025 Produced by Torino News Opinion News Opinion About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish

See which documents you must attach under the Important to know tab When you apply in the e-service, you can include your family in your own application.
Requirements for applying in the e-service To apply in the e-service, you must be 18 years or older have a valid email address be able to pay the application fee with a payment card issued by Visa or Mastercard be able to scan or photograph the documents you need to attach.
E-service for researchers To the e-service By logging in you accept the terms of use What does it cost to apply? Employees: SEK 1,500.
Adult family members: SEK 1,500 Children: SEK 750 Citizens of Japan do not pay an application fee.

2025-09-15 This applies to you who live in Lebanon and want to apply for a visa or a residence and work permit in Sweden The embassy in Beirut has had its migration operations paused since October 2024.
From 1 October, 2025, the embassy will not handle migration cases at all.
You should then instead turn to the Swedish embassy in Amman, Jordan.
2025-09-15 Changes for those living in Palestine who want to apply for a visa or residence and work permit in Sweden As of 1 October, the consulate-general in Jerusalem will no longer handle migration cases.
You should instead contact another foreign mission in the area that has a migration assignment.

Advertisement "The new pages include a guide that shows the differences between different types of permits for students and researchers, such as a description of the conditions, which permit is appropriate, how long you can get a permit for and any limitations," Davidsson explained.
Please sign up or log in to continue reading More #Study in Sweden #Education #Residency permits Comments (1) Join the conversation in our comments section below.
Share your own views and experience and if you have a question or suggestion for our journalists then email us at news@thelocal.se .
Please keep comments civil, constructive and on topic – and make sure to read our terms of use before getting involved.

"We are expecting good results which will mean not only that doctoral students get a response to their applications more quickly, but also that the application process becomes more predictable and transparent – ​​you will know what you are expected to do and when you are expected to receive an answer to your application." As part of the new service, the agency has created a new section for researchers and PhD students on its website, giving advice on providing a complete application which will qualify for the 30-day track.

Visit one of the Swedish Migration Agency's service centres, or send them to: Migrationsverket Box 3100 903 03 Umeå Sweden Pay the application fee Once we have received your application, we will contact you via email or letter with information on how to make the payment and how much you must pay.
News 2025-11-05 You can now visit a National Government Service Centre The National Government Service Centre is gradually taking over the task of taking photographs and fingerprints and checking documents.
They can also answer general questions and help you with your application.

The decision will then be sent by post to your chosen embassy or representative.
You may need to book an appointment at the embassy to pick it up.
When you receive the decision, you can find out the reasons on which we based it.
If you are granted a residence permit, you have the right to live and work as a researcher in Sweden as long as the permit is valid.
If your application is rejected and you are currently in Sweden, you must prepare to leave the country.
You have received a decision – Work Have you assembled all documents? Be sure to provide complete information and attach all necessary documents.
The Swedish Migration Agency prioritises complete cases.

In your application, you indicate which Swedish embassy or consulate-general you want to visit to present your passport.
Waiting time before we start examining the application Now follows a period of waiting until the Swedish Migration Agency takes a closer look at your application.
The Swedish Migration Agency processes the application The Swedish Migration Agency will review all the information about your application and determine whether you can be granted a residence permit.
If we can immediately see that you do not meet the requirements for a residence permit, we may decide to reject your application.
We will contact you if we need more information.

2025-07-23 Extended passports become invalid on 1 October As of 1 October 2025, Swedish authorities will no longer accept passports that have had their period of validity extended by inserting a stamp or sticker into the passport.
If you have such a national passport, you should apply for a new one.
2025-07-07 If you need to apply for a visa, you can now do so in Islamabad As of 7 July, you can apply for a Schengen visa in Pakistan for short visits to Sweden by submitting your application in Islamabad.
The Swedish Migration Agency is responsible for considering applications from people who want to live in Sweden, seek protection or become Swedish citizens.

Aimee Miles, spokesperson for the Doctoral Candidate Association’s board, told Universitetsläraren at the time that the doctoral students felt that they were hostage to arbitrary and mysterious bureaucratic processes.
According to Christine Davidsson at the Migration Agency, the new service commitment will hopefully remedy that problem.
Because it was very disappointing that they perceived it that way.

If another authority needs to provide an opinion on the case, it cannot be considered complete at that time.
We cannot be responsible for the processing times of other authorities.” Last spring, a report was published by the SULF Doctoral Candidate Association in which some 40 international doctoral students were interviewed about their experiences in Sweden.
When asked if they would recommend other international researchers to come to Sweden, the answer was an overwhelming no.

Our work is based on Swedish laws and international conventions, with a focus on legal certainty and effective reception and return.
Facebook Linkedin For employers For municipalities For other actors Contact us Help for those who are living with violence Word explanations About the Swedish Migration Agency Press room Other languages About the website Settings for cookies Proces­sing of personal data

In some cases, we will contact your employer for further information.
Waiting time while we process your application Now you must wait.
Read more about waiting times Log in to My page By logging in to My page, you can access information about your application and use our services.
My page Present a passport and provide fingerprints Before we can make a decision about a residence permit, you need to present your passport.
You must also be fingerprinted and photographed.
This information will later be used to produce a residence permit card for you, if you are granted a permit for a period of more than three months.

Sweden's Migration Agency pledges 30-day processing time for PhD students Advertisement Advertisement Swedish News Latest news Politics Immigration Cost of living Travel news Economy Stockholm Malmö Gothenburg Podcast Practical help Living in Sweden Work permits Moving to Sweden Residency permits Study in Sweden Visas Citizenship Living Costs Family Taxes Pensions Reader questions Learn about Sweden Sweden Explained Discover Sweden Swedish Traditions Swedish History Swedish Habits Food and Drink Language Swedish courses Learning Swedish Swedish Word of the Day Homes Property Renting Find Rentals Jobs Working in Sweden Find jobs in Sweden Topics Swedish News Latest news Politics Immigration Cost of living Travel news Economy Stockholm Malmö Gothenburg Podcast Practical help Living in Sweden Work permits Moving to Sweden Residency permits Study in Sweden Visas Citizenship Living Costs Family Taxes Pensions Reader questions Learn about Sweden Sweden Explained Discover Sweden Swedish Traditions Swedish History Swedish Habits Food and Drink Language Swedish courses Learning Swedish Swedish Word of the Day Homes Property Renting Find Rentals Jobs Working in Sweden Find jobs in Sweden Choose edition sweden All Editions Austria Denmark France Germany Italy Norway Spain Sweden Switzerland Membership Become a member Newsletters Help Centre Gift Vouchers Educational Access Corporate Access The Local About Us Contact Us News Archive Search articles All topics Advertise with us Post a job ad Get The Local App The Local Europe AB Västmannagatan 43 113 25 Stockholm Sweden Study in Sweden For Members Sweden's Migration Agency pledges 30-day processing time for PhD students Richard Orange - richard.orange@thelocal.com Published: 1 Oct, 2025 CET.

If you are cohabiting partners: documents showing that you have lived together, such as population registration certificates, a joint rental contract, or proof of the joint purchase of a home.
Documents to attach if you have accompanying children Birth record or birth certificate stating the names of the child’s parents Sole custody decision If you have sole custody of your child, you must attach a court decision to this effect.
If the other parent is deceased, you must submit a death certificate.

The new model for handling permits for PhD students is based on a similar process to that the agency brought in for work permits back in 2024 , which led to significantly reduced processing times.
"In order to increase the proportion of complete cases and thus shorten processing times, we are improving the service, starting early in the application process," Christine Davidsson, section manager at the agency, said in a press release .

2025-09-04 Children born in Sweden to people with certain types of permits can now get a residence permit without leaving Sweden Children born in Sweden who have thus never entered Sweden, and whose parent has a research permit, an EU Blue Card or an ICT permit, can now obtain a residence permit without having to leave Sweden.
2025-09-01 Higher income requirements for elite athletes and coaches As of today, 1 September, new rules apply to people seeking a work permit as a professional athlete or coach.
The rules have been developed in collaboration with the Swedish Sports Confederation.

If you do not leave Sweden voluntarily, you may need to regularly report to the Swedish Migration Agency in a process known as supervision, or be placed in a detention centre run by the Swedish Migration Agency.
Your case may also be handed over to the police.
Are you an employer? You can find information specifically for employers on our Employers pages .
You receive a research offer and a signed hosting agreement Before you apply for a residence permit for researchers, you need to have a signed hosting agreement, which your research principal will send to you.
You apply You fill in the application and attach the required documents.

You have a residence permit for research in another EU member state and intend to conduct part of your research in Sweden.
You have a permit for work or to run your own business.
If you are applying from within Sweden, you must submit your application before your permit expires, and the conditions for the previous permit must have been met.
If your application is rejected, you must leave Sweden If you are currently in Sweden and your application is rejected, you must prepare to leave the country.

2025-09-15 Changes for those residing in Israel who wish to apply for a visa or a residence and work permit in Sweden As of 1 October, the embassy in Tel Aviv will no longer handle migration cases.
Instead, you should contact another foreign mission in the region or within the Schengen area that handles migration cases.
2025-09-11 How you will be affected when extended passports become invalid We have previously reported that Swedish authorities will not accept extended passports from 1 October 2025.
Here we answer frequently asked questions about what this means and who will be affected.

Updated: Wed 1 Oct 2025 11:07 CET Share 1 comment Students at Uppsala University enjoy the autumn weather.
Photo: Cecilia Larsson Lantz/Imagebank.sweden.se The Swedish Migration Agency has set a new 30-day target for concluding residency permit applications from foreign PhD students and their dependents, in what it hopes will mean better service for higher education.
Advertisement Sweden's government has ordered the agency to shorten processing times and increase the proportion of decisions made within the statutory time frame (in other words, within 30 days), especially when it concerns residency permits for work, study and research.

Consent that the child may move to Sweden If a child has two parents/legal guardians and the child’s other parent/legal guardian will be remaining in their country of origin, you must attach a statement of consent from the other parent/legal guardian to the application.
You must also attach a copy of the other parent or legal guardian’s passport or other identity document.
Consent for a child to settle in Sweden (217011) Pdf, 1.1 MB.

Improved service for higher education institutions during the application process.
The service commitment applies both to new applications and to extensions.
It also covers doctoral students’ family members.
Thomas Wederus Universitetsläraren conforms strictly to journalistic principles and follows the media industry’s rules on publication and professional ethics.
The magazine is free and independent of its owner, SULF – the Swedish Association of University Teachers and Researchers.
If you have tips on issues that you think we should write about, you are welcome to contact us at redaktionen@universitetslararen.se .
You can remain anonymous if you wish.

In the application, you must therefore state which embassy you want to visit.

You must devote at least 50 percent of your working hours to research In order for you to be granted a residence permit as a researcher, at least half of your working hours must be devoted to research.
Teaching or administrative work in the research group is not counted as research.
Who should not apply for a residence permit for research? People who are going to conduct research for less than three months If you are going to conduct research in Sweden for less than three months, you do not need a residence permit.
However, citizens of certain countries need an entry visa in order to travel to Sweden.
Countries whose citizens need an entry visa to travel to Sweden External link.

Doctoral students’ residence permits are valid for a maximum of four years, which means that they need to apply for an extension if their thesis defence is delayed or if their studies have been interrupted, for example because of teaching commitments, parental leave or illness.
If the original permit expires before an extension has been granted, the doctoral student is effectively stuck in the country and unable to participate in conferences or other research-related activities abroad, Andersson tells us.

“Although applicants have been allowed to stay in Sweden while waiting for a decision, they have not been able to leave the country and come back again, which has caused problems for many.” Another problem is that long waiting times are sometimes caused by authorities other than the Migration Agency.
For example, the Swedish Security Service sometimes takes a long time to assess applicants from Iran, Russia and China.
However, this kind of situation is not covered by the promise of a decision within 30 days, says Christine Davidsson.
“Our service commitment applies when we consider a case to be complete here at the Migration Agency.

Adoption documents, if your child is adopted Who can be granted a residence permit as a researcher in Sweden? You can be granted a residence permit as a researcher if you have a doctorate or are eligible to start a doctoral programme and are invited here by a research principal that has been approved by the Swedish Research Council.
A research principal can be a Swedish higher education institution, some other type of research institution, or a business.
As a researcher, you can also be granted a residence permit if you have a residence permit for research in another EU country and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden over a lengthy period of time.

Not all Swedish embassies and consulates-general handle migration cases, so it is important to check which one you should contact: What country or territory do you live in? Select Select Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia- and Hercegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cap Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxemburg Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solmon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Türkiye Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe You must attach copies of these documents to your application Make sure that the information on your submitted documents is clearly visible.

And we really believe that we will now be able to create the predictability and transparency that we are aiming for.” Due to improved efficiency, digitalisation of the application process and good collaboration with SUHF, Davidsson believes that a decision within 30 days is a realistic promise.
“As we have reduced processing times in general, we see it as entirely possible.
That is why we are introducing this now,” she says.
About the new service commitment On 1 October 2025 , the Swedish Migration Agency introduced a new service commitment for international doctoral students.
This means: Decisions within 30 days for complete residence permit applications.

Read more: Migration , Migration Agency , Postdoctoral researchers , SUHF Share: Related articles: Opinion , 2025-05-28 Universities must oppose migration policies News , 2025-05-08 International PhD students advise against doctoral studies in Sweden News , 2025-02-10 Easier for doctoral candidates to remain in Sweden News , 2025-01-30 Easier for doctoral candidates to remain in Sweden Latest news: “Particular elements of the system have been challenging” Opinion , 2025-11-06 Rare teaching hours News , 2025-11-03 Sick leave on decline within academia News , 2025-11-03 “The fact that we are afraid is of great value to them” News , 2025-11-03 A police science begins to take shape News , 2025-11-03 Sweden’s first doctoral student in police science News , 2025-11-03 Do you have a news tip? You can be anonymous.

Power of attorney – if someone else will be applying for you A representative can apply for you, if you grant them power of attorney.
In that case, the person who applies for you must attach a copy of the power of attorney to your application.
Power of attorney (107011) Pdf, 1.1 MB.
Read more about power of attorney Documents to attach if your family is applying with you Correctly made copies of each family member’s passport Your family member can never be granted a residence permit for longer than their passport is valid.
Read more about what the passport copies must show Documents showing your relationship If you are married: marriage certificate, marriage record, or similar document.

People who have a permit in another EU country and are going to conduct research in Sweden for a short period of time If you have a residence permit to conduct research in another EU country, you do not need a residence permit if you will only conduct part of your research in Sweden, for a maximum of 180 days in a 360-day period.
If you have been admitted to a doctoral programme in Sweden If you have been admitted to a doctoral (third-cycle) programme in Sweden, you must instead apply for a residence permit as a student.

“At times, there have been problems with long processing times for doctoral candidates.
There is actually a requirement that decisions on study permits are to be made within 90 days, unless supplementary information or documentation is needed, and this requirement has not always been met.
So if they can keep this new promise, that will be great.” Robert Andersson Head of negotiations, SULF One particular concern has been long waiting times for permit extensions.

The new service commitment is linked to the Migration Agency’s appropriation directions for 2025, In which the Government instructs the agency to focus on increasing returns of individuals to their home countries and measures to combat fraud and abuse.
But it is also part of the efforts to make Sweden an attractive country for highly skilled labour.
“We must work to improve Sweden’s ability to attract and retain international expertise,” says Davidsson.
“It is against this background that we have made these changes.” Robert Andersson, head of negotiations at SULF, welcomes the change.
“This is great, and long overdue,” he says.

You want to apply – Doctoral studies If you have been admitted to a doctoral programme/third-cycle programme in another country and are going to complete part of your education in Sweden If you are admitted to a doctoral/third-cycle programme in another country and will complete part of your education in Sweden, you must apply for a visitor’s residence permit instead.
You want to apply – Visiting Sweden for more than 90 days Citizens of the EU/EEA or Switzerland or long-term residents Other rules apply if you are a citizen of the EU/EEA or Switzerland, or if you have long-term resident status in another EU country.

Correctly made copies of your passport You can never be granted a permit for longer than your passport is valid.
Read more about what the passport copies must show Hosting agreement This document must be sent to you by your research principal.
It must be signed by both you and the research principal.
Hosting agreement for researchers in Sweden (231011) Pdf, 742.1 kB.
Documents showing that you have or have applied for comprehensive health insurance If you will be in Sweden for less than a year.
A copy of your residence permit card from another EU country If you have been granted a residence permit to conduct research in another EU country.

Contact us News , 2025-11-03 Always available – but at what cost? For university teachers, the line between work and leisure is becoming increasingly blurred....
News , 2025-11-03 How to support students with mental health challenges Students are overrepresented when it comes to mental health issues.
News , 2025-09-22 A thick managerial fog within academia Ten years ago, a manager at a state sector higher education institution was...
News , 2025-09-18 Commission of inquiry on organisational form appointed – despite opposition The Social Democrats, with the support of the Sweden Democrats, passed a parliamentary...

News , 2025-06-16 “A matter of time before Trump attacks other universities” Proud that the university is standing up to Trump, but also greatly concerned for colleagues at other American universities after the president's attacks on academic...
Opinion , 2025-05-28 Universities must oppose migration policies Migration insecurities compromise academic freedom and research integrity in Sweden.
Universities must not be complacent, or complicit, writes Aimee Miles, spokesperson for the SULF Doctoral...
News , 2025-05-26 No increase in wellness allowance at HEIs The cost of a gym membership increases over time.

You must devote at least 50 percent of your working hours to research You must have enough money for your stay These funds must be sufficient both for your stay in Sweden and to pay for your return journey (at least SEK 9,700 per month).
You must have, or have applied for, a comprehensive health insurance policy If you will be staying in Sweden for less than one year, you will need comprehensive health insurance.
The insurance must be valid for the entire time you will be in Sweden and cover the cost of urgent and other medical care, hospitalisation, and emergency dental care.

If your family is accompanying you to Sweden, they can be granted a residence permit for the same period as you, but never longer than the period of validity of their passports.
What does it cost to apply? Employees: SEK 1,500.
Adult family members: SEK 1,500 Children: SEK 750 Citizens of Japan do not pay an application fee.
You will not receive a refund if your application is rejected.
How long must I wait for a decision? If an application for a residence permit for research is complete, we will make a decision within 30 days.
It is not possible to say exactly how long you will need to wait for a decision.

Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits - Universitetsläraren News from the world of higher education Swedish Sök News from the world of higher education Sök efter: Sök News Opinion News Opinion Newsletter Swedish News Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits There will now be the same conditions for international doctoral students as for highly qualified labour.
From 1 October, the Migration Agency will make decisions on residence permits within 30 days.

2025-10-09 Thomas Wederus Read this article in Swedish In January 2024, the Migration Agency launched a new work process for assessment of residence permits applications for highly qualified labour.
This model to also include international doctoral students from 1 October.
In January 2024 , the Swedish Migration Agency launched a new work process for assessment of residence permits applications for highly qualified labour, i.e.
people in management positions and occupations requiring higher education or advanced higher education qualifications.
The main aim was to reduce the processing times for highly skilled labour immigrants.

If anyone in your family decides later that they want to move to Sweden to join you, they must submit their own application afterwards.
You want to apply – Family of an employee or self-employed person who apply afterwards If your family is granted residence permits, your adult family members and children who will turn at least 16 during the current year are permitted to work.
For how long can I be granted a residence permit? You can be granted a permit for a maximum of four years at a time, but not for longer than the hosting agreement is valid.
You can never be granted a permit for longer than your passport is valid.
Your residence permit can be extended.

Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions

It must also cover the cost of medical repatriation, if you need to return to your country of origin for health reasons.
If you are granted a permit for at least one year, you should register in Sweden’s population register.
This will give you access to health and medical care and dental care.
Prepare this before you apply Translate documents All submitted documents should be in Swedish or English.
If you have translated your documents, the translation should be certified.
You must also include a copy of the document in its original language.
Plan which embassy to visit to present your passport You may need to present your passport at an embassy before you can receive a decision.

News , 2025-09-18 Audiobooks help improve students’ language skills Recently, there has been much talk of a "reading crisis" among young people, not least from politicians.
Two educational institutions that want to boost interest...
News , 2025-06-17 Vice-Chancellors critical of assignment to create citizenship tests Under the cooperation agreement between the government and its support party the Sweden Democrats, two universities are to help the UHR to design a citizenship...

News , 2025-09-18 HE institutions in Northern Ireland struggling with underfunding This spring, Queen's University Belfast cut nearly 270 jobs, causing concern ahead of...
News , 2025-09-18 Involuntary flexibility when HE institutions renovate Flexible office solutions are increasingly common at universities and colleges.
Working spaces are...
News , 2025-10-09 Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits There will now be the same conditions for international doctoral students as for highly qualified labour.
From 1 October, the Migration Agency will make decisions...

You must also do so if you have a residence permit for research in another EU member state and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden.
Researcher or doctoral student – which permit must I apply for? If you are unsure about which type of residence permit to apply for, you can use our guide: Guide for doctoral students and researchers Requirements to get a residence permit These requirements must be met in order for you to be granted a residence permit: You must have a valid passport You must have a hosting agreement with a research principal The research principal (the organisation that receives the research work) must be approved by the Swedish Research Council External link.

You will not receive a refund if your application is rejected.
If you cannot apply in the e-service If you cannot apply in the e-service, fill in the form: Residence permit application for researchers (127011) Pdf, 920.6 kB.
You must also attach the hosting agreement, which must be signed by you and the research principal.
Hosting agreement for researchers in Sweden (231011) Pdf, 742.1 kB.
If your family applies together with you, each family member must fill in the form: Application for a permit for family members of workers, researchers, athletes or coaches and self-employed persons (133011) Pdf, 918 kB.

EU/EEA citizens with right of residence If you are an EU/EEA citizen, you have the right to live in another EU/EEA country if you fulfil the requirements for right of residence through work, your own company, your studies, or by having sufficient funds to support yourself.
If you have right of residence, you do not need to apply for a residence permit to live in Sweden.
EU/EEA citizens Swiss citizens If you are a citizen of Switzerland, you can move to Sweden to work, study, start your own business, or live on your own funds.
If you want to remain in Sweden for longer than three months, you must apply for a residence permit for Swiss citizens.

It needs to be easy for applicants do the right thing” she says.
Christine Davidsson Head of Section for Region West, Swedish Migration Agency Specially tailored information and instructions will be posted on the Migration Agency’s website to make the process easier for higher education institutions.
They will also be able to contact an information officer with expertise in doctoral student applications for help and advice regarding individual cases.

The Agency has now expanded this model to also include international doctoral students from 1 October 2025.
Christine Davidsson is Head of Section for Region West at the Swedish Migration Agency and a member of the co-operation group for the Agency and SUHF, the Association of Swedish Higher Education Institutions.
She explains to Universitetsläraren that international doctoral students will now receive a decision on their application for a residence permit within 30 days.
The Agency also promises improved service to higher education institutions during the application process.
“We see this as a prerequisite for being able to submit a complete application.

You want to apply – Swiss citizens If you have long-term resident status in another EU country If you have long-term resident status in another EU country, you can move to Sweden to work, study or live on your own funds.
If you plan to stay longer than three months, you need to apply for a residence permit for long-term residents.
You want to apply – Long-term residents in another EU country If your family wants to move to Sweden with you If any of your family members also want to apply for a residence permit, they can do so at the same time as you.
“Family members” are considered to include spouses, registered partners, cohabiting partners, and children under the age of 18.

Submit your application You must submit your application at a Swedish embassy or consulate-general in the country where you live.
Remember to bring the documents you need to attach.

Apply for a residence permit to conduct research in Sweden – Swedish Migration Agency Start Layer 1 Search My page Svenska Menu Start You want to apply Work Employee or self-employed You want to apply Researchers You want to apply Researchers You want to apply for a residence permit to conduct research in Sweden.
If your family will be accompanying you, they can apply at the same time.
Listen Important to know How it works Apply If you are a citizen of a country outside the EU/EEA, you will in most cases need a permit to work in Sweden.
If you are invited by an approved research principal to conduct research in Sweden for a lengthy period, you must apply for a residence permit for research.

News , 2025-09-22 She studies everything that is bad about the internet Data scientist Lisa Kaati builds software that can identify toxic language online and has recently begun a collaboration with the FBI to use her models...
Columns , 2025-09-22 In line at the US border control As I stand in line at US border control for the first time since the change of administration, I feel a little more nervous than...
News , 2025-09-22 A playful quiz can breathe life into a fact-filled seminar Information overload.
Fact-filled seminars.
This common educational dilemma has many names.
There is no easy solution to the problem, but there are a few...

Your Student route application is for degree-level study at an institution that is not a higher education provider with a track record of compliance, and you don't meet any of the previous provisions Evidence: your CAS confirms that your Student sponsor has assessed your English language ability to be at a minimum of CEFR level B2 in each of the four components, using one of the Home Office's approved secure English Language tests (SELTs).
Enter the test reference number on your Student route application form so that the Home Office can verify your SELT results online.
No further evidence is required.

Your application Last updated 11 November, 2025 Once you have applied and been accepted on your chosen course, and you have received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), you can start your Student route application.
This section sets out the requirements and evidence you will need to complete your application.
Open all Close all Your qualifications You will need to send a certificate or transcript of results for all qualifications listed in the 'Evidence used to obtain offer' section of your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
You also have the option of submitting printouts of your qualification or transcript results from the awarding body’s online checking service.

This includes short courses during vacations and in the period between the end of your course and the end of your Student immigration permission .
The provider of the extra course is not required to have a Student sponsor licence.
There is no need for either the provider or you to notify the Home Office about the supplementary study.
While there are no immigration restrictions on supplementary study, you should check that the academic regulations at your sponsor institution allow you to take an extra course.

Your Student route application is for degree-level study at a higher education provider with a track record of compliance, and you don't meet any of the previous provisions Evidence: your CAS confirms that your Student sponsor has assessed your English language ability to be at a minimum of CEFR level B2 in each of the four components.
Your CAS must also state the method of assessment that your Student sponsor used.

The printouts must clearly show your name, the title and date of the award, and the name of the awarding body.
If you submit a printout of your qualification or transcript, the Home Office reserves the right to request the certificate of qualification, or transcript of results.
If you submit any certificates or transcripts that are not in English or Welsh, you must also include a translation of each.
‘Low-risk’ applicants do not need to submit these documents but should have them available in case the Home Office asks to see them.

Your Student route application is for study below degree level and you don't meet any of the previous provisions Evidence: your CAS confirms that the Student sponsor has assessed your English language ability to be at a minimum of CEFR level B1 in each of the four components, using one of the Home Office's approved secure English language tests (SELTs).
Enter the test reference number on your Student route application form so that the Home Office can verify your SELT results online.
No further evidence is required.
Financial requirements When you are applying for the Student route, you will need to prove that you have enough money to pay for your course fees and your living costs.

The Home Office calls this the 'financial requirements'.
You will be exempt from meeting the financial requirements, according to paragraph ST 12 of Appendix Student in the Immigration Rules, in either of these cases: If you have been living in the UK for 12 months or more with immigration permission at the time of your application and make your Student application from inside the UK.
If you apply from either inside or outside the UK as a students’ union sabbatical officer.

If you are studying at degree level or above, and are sponsored by a higher education provider with a track record of compliance, you will not be required to submit these documents.
Passport You must normally include your valid passport with your application, which must contain at least one full page that is blank on both sides.
Unlike many other countries, the UK does not require that a passport is valid for any particular period of time after arrival in the UK, but it must be valid when you make your application and when you arrive in the UK (if you are applying for entry clearance).

Your Student sponsor will send you a unique CAS reference number, which you will need to enter on your online Student route application.
Your Student sponsor should also provide you with the information used to generate your CAS, usually called the 'CAS statement'.
The CAS statement itself is not required for your Student route application, but it has useful information about your course and Student sponsor, and some information about money, which will help you to complete your Student route application.

There are special arrangements if you are a national of a majority English-speaking country , have a qualification taught in an English-speaking country, are spending no more than six months in the UK as part of a USA degree-level course, or plan to study at degree level at a UK higher education provider with a track record of compliance.

GCSE, A Level or Scottish equivalent qualification Evidence: certificate or transcript.
Met in a previous application Evidence: although the Appendix English language and the Student and Child Student guidance do not specify how this will be evidenced, confirmation on the CAS/self-declaration on the Student application form should be acceptable.
'Gifted' degree student at a higher education provider with a track record of compliance Evidence: confirmed on the CAS.
You must also carry a letter from your institution with you when you enter the UK.

You have a degree-level qualification taught in a majority English-speaking country or taught or researched in English Evidence: certificate or results transcript plus a statement of comparability from Qualification and Language Service (QLS) confirming that the qualification meets or exceeds the level of a UK degree.
You have completed a degree in the UK Evidence: certificate or results transcript.
Study abroad student Evidence: confirmed on the CAS, plus a statement of comparability from QLS (formerly Ecctis) confirming that the course of studies overseas will lead to an academic qualification at UK bachelor's degree level or above.

The method of assessment will vary but could include: Passing one of the Home Office's secure English language tests (SELTs) at an approved test centre.
Having a GCSE, A Level or Scottish equivalent in English language or literature following education at a UK school whilst below the age of 18.
You can also meet the English language requirement if you have already met the English language requirement successfully in a previous application made either inside or outside the UK.
This requirement can only be satisfied if the level of English in the previous application was at the required level for the current application.

You might have heard of the Tier 4 visa, but the Student visa has replaced the Tier 4 (General) student visa and the Child Student visa has replaced the Tier 4 (Child) student visa.
If you currently have or previously had a Tier 4 visa, then this information will still apply to you.
Open all Close all Getting a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) Before you start your application for the Student route, you must have a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
A CAS is an electronic document that your college, school or university issues after they make you an unconditional offer for your course of study.
It is stored on a database that the Home Office can see.

Access Denied Access Denied You don't have permission to access "http://study-uk.britishcouncil.org/moving-uk/student-visas" on this server.
Reference #18.291bd017.1763274885.34fedc4b https://errors.edgesuite.net/18.291bd017.1763274885.34fedc4b

You cannot use an IELTS Life Skills test as a SELT for a Student application.
You should check with your institution whether they require you to take an Academic or General IELTS test.
IELTS results certificates state a CEFR level, however this is the CEFR level of the overall band score and is not necessarily confirmation that you have obtained this level in each of the four components.
If in doubt, check with your Student sponsor.
English language evidence Your Student sponsor must confirm on your CAS that it has either assessed your level of English language in reading, writing, speaking and listening, or that it is not required to do so.

UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) say that your passport must remain valid for the full length of your stay, but this has no basis in any law or guidance and we do not know of any student who has been refused entry to the UK on this basis.
It would be very common for someone's passport to expire during a long stay in the UK.
If you are applying for entry clearance and your passport will expire very shortly after you arrive in the UK, it is advisable to renew it before you make your Student application , if there is time to do so.

In practice, your institution may not be able to issue a CAS for a Student extension application in the UK if there is too long a period when you have no required participation on the course.
In this case, they will expect you to leave the UK once you are no longer required to attend your course, then return either with a new Student visa or as a Visitor for the re-sit.
Either a Student visa or a Visitor visa are fine for the re-sit itself, but if you then need more time to complete your course, it is important to understand that only someone with a Student visa can apply in the UK to extend their stay.

If you had a Visitor visa for the re-sit or repeat you will need to return overseas to make any Student route application.
We advise you discuss in advance with your institution what will be the best way for you to return to the UK for your re-sit.
Postgraduate doctors and dentists in training Health Education England no longer sponsors postgraduate doctors and dentists in training under the Student route.
You should now either seek sponsorship under the Skilled Worker route , or utilise the Graduate route .
Supplementary study While you are studying the course for which your Student immigration permission was issued, you can take extra courses at any level, with any course provider.

If your passport will expire at any other point during your time in the UK, you should check with the passport issuing authority in your home country if you will be able to replace it in the UK.
This is possible for most nationalities, but not all.
English language requirements When you apply for the Student route, you will be assessed on your ability to read, write, speak and understand English.
Your Student sponsor will tell you how it will assess your English and the level of English you must have, which is subject to minimum levels set by the Home Office.

Whether and how you need to provide evidence of English language in your Student application depends on what your Student sponsor has entered in this field of the CAS.
We set out the evidence you may need to provide to prove your knowledge of the English language depending on what your Student sponsor has entered in the CAS field: National of a majority English-speaking country Evidence: your passport.

Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright

Check what you can and cannot do on this visa Check what courses you can study on this visa Check if you can bring your partner or children ('dependants') with you If you're under 18 and you want to study at an independent school in the UK, you may be eligible for a Child Student visa instead.
Check which visas you're eligible for Step 2 : Prepare the evidence you need Check what documents you can use as evidence Prove your knowledge of the English language Check if you need a tuberculosis (TB) test If you're doing a masters degree or above, you may need to apply for the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate.

Find out if you can pay more to get a faster decision or Apply from inside the UK Apply to extend if you're already in the UK on Student visa (or a Tier 4 (General) visa) £524 Apply to switch to this visa if you're already in the UK £524 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application.
You'll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.
You may be able to pay more to get a faster decision you’ll be told if you can when you apply Step 4 : Get access to your eVisa If your application is successful, you'll get an eVisa.
This is an online record of your immigration status.
Get access to your eVisa by setting up a UKVI account.

Student permission you had before your 18th birthday will not be counted.
In most cases, this limit is five years.
However, for students studying at a higher education provider with a track record of compliance, this may be increased to five years and 11 months.
Some courses are exempt from the five-year limit when you apply under the Student route to study them, including medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, architecture and some legal qualifications.
If you later make another application to study a different course, the time you were granted to study these usually exempt courses will be counted.

If you have a legal guardian, a court document, or copy, which shows the name of your guardian(s) whose bank account you are using for your immigration application.
You must also provide a signed letter from your parent(s) or legal guardian(s), confirming the relationship between you, and confirming that they consent to the funds being available to you for study in the UK.
Any other relative (or unrelated person) can pay money direct to your Student sponsor on your behalf, for example, to pay your course fees or housing costs.

If not, you will need to provide a paper receipt confirming how much you have paid towards your course fees and/or your accommodation fees.
‘Low-risk’ applicants who have a receipt do not need to include it with the application.
Financial evidence Evidence of your money must meet specific requirements.
If it does not, your immigration application is likely to be refused.
If you have already paid money to your institution for your course fees or accommodation, submit paper receipts with your application as evidence of this, unless this information is included in your CAS.
See 'deductions' in financial requirements for more information.

As evidence of your money, you can use any one or more of these forms of evidence as set out in Appendix Finance: personal bank statements letter from your bank, or a regulated financial institution certificate(s) of deposit letter from an official financial sponsor letter from a regulated financial institution confirming that you have a loan from the national government, the state or regional government, or a government-sponsored student loan company letter from a regulated financial institution confirming that you have a loan that is part of an academic or educational loans scheme statements of a passbook from a building society Personal bank statements As evidence of your money, you can use personal bank statements in your Student route application.

If any other relative or unrelated person wishes to support you financially with your Student route application, the financial evidence (such as a bank statement) must be in joint names.
Alternatively, the money can be held in your partner’s name.
If you do not have any of the above, but you have a government-issued household register showing your name and your parent or parents' name(s), the Home Office's financial requirement casework guidance confirms that this is acceptable evidence of your relationship, though this option is not listed on the application form.

Check which visas you're eligible for Step 2 : Prepare the evidence you need Check what documents you can use as evidence Prove your knowledge of the English language Check if you need a tuberculosis (TB) test If you're doing a masters degree or above, you may need to apply for the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate.
Check if you need to apply for ATAS Step 3 : Apply from outside the UK Apply from outside the UK £524 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application.
You'll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.

The two-year cap is extended to two years and 11 months if you have never studied in the UK on a Student visa before and you are applying under the Student route to study a two-year course.
If you are applying under the Student route to study a course that requires you spending up to 12 months at sea, speak to your Student sponsor directly to check whether the course is one which attracts a longer limit, of three years or three years and six months.
Degree-level courses The time limit on study on degree-level courses applies to the Student route and the Tier 4 route .
Only Student permission you have been granted to study degree-level courses will be counted.

Check if you need to apply for ATAS Step 3 : Apply from outside the UK Apply from outside the UK £524 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application.
You'll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
Find out if you can pay more to get a faster decision or Apply from inside the UK Apply to extend if you're already in the UK on Student visa (or a Tier 4 (General) visa) £524 Apply to switch to this visa if you're already in the UK £524 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application.
You'll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.

Check if you can extend your visa If you break the conditions of your visa you may not be able to come to the UK again.
Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only.
Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) .

Your decision email or letter will tell you how to get access to your eVisa .
You’ll need to create a UKVI account.
Previous : Documents you'll need to apply Next : Your partner and children View a printable version of the whole guide This page is Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Step 1 : Check if this visa is right for you You can apply for a Student visa if you’re 16 or over and want to study on a further or higher education course in the UK.

On Student route applications for study at postgraduate level and above, there are no longer any time limits.
Time limits and Coronavirus (Covid-19) The Covid-19: Guidance for Student sponsors, migrants and for Short-term students confirms that the time limits for those studying courses at degree-level and below degree-level, will remain the same.
Discretion may be applied in the future by the Home Office if the length of time granted to you under the Student route would take you over the time limit as a result of Covid-19.
Related articles Student route: applying in the UK Applying for the Student route inside the UK is a different process to applying outside of the UK.

You will not need to apply again unless your original course end date is delayed or postponed by more than three months or your course contents or research proposal change.
‘Low-risk’ applicants You are a ‘low-risk’ applicant if you apply under the Student route , and you have a passport issued by one of the countries or territories listed in paragraph ST 22.1 of Appendix Student of the Immigration Rules .
‘Low-risk' applicants do not need to submit evidence of their qualifications or submit evidence that they satisfy the financial requirements in an application.
The Home Office calls this the “differentiation arrangements” for low-risk applicants.

Deductions You can deduct the following from the total amount of money that you need as part of your immigration application: money that you have already paid to your Student sponsor towards your course fees, and up to £1,529 that you have already paid to your Student sponsor for your accommodation fees, if you will be living in university or college accommodation.
You cannot deduct any advance payment for any other type of housing, nor can you adjust the amounts if you will have no housing costs (for example, if you will be living with a relative free of charge).
Your CAS may include details of any money paid to your institution.

Business accounts are not acceptable because the Immigration Rules ( Appendix Finance ) specify that accounts must be personal.
If you wish to use a personal bank account in your parent's or guardian's name (or names), you must include evidence of their relationship to you.
This evidence of your relationship with your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) can be proven with: Your birth certificate, or a copy, showing the name of your parent(s) whose bank account you are using for your immigration application.
If you are adopted, the certificate of adoption, or a copy, showing your name and the name of your parent(s) whose bank account you are using for your immigration application.

Funds from an overseas account will not be considered by the Home Office if any of the following apply: The Home Office is unable to make satisfactory verification checks of the overseas bank.
The overseas bank is not regulated by the appropriate regulatory body in the respective overseas country.
The overseas bank does not use electronic record keeping.
Please refer to FIN 2.1 of Appendix Finance of the Immigration Rules for further details.
Using your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) funds You may use a personal bank account in your parent's or guardian's name (or names) to prove that you have enough money to study in the UK as part of your Student route application.

For study elsewhere in the UK, the monthly amounts are lower: you will need £1,171 for each month of your course, and up to £10,539 for a course lasting nine months or more.
Use the course start and end dates on your CAS to calculate the length of your course and therefore how many months' maintenance you will need.
If the length of your course includes a part of a month, round it up to a full month.
For example, if your course dates are 30 May-1 October, this is four months and two days so you would need to show five months of funds.

You can also find out if you need an ATAS clearance certificate or whether you are exempt because of your nationality.
Your institution must confirm on your CAS whether you require an ATAS clearance certificate.
If you do, you must apply to the FCDO and obtain your ATAS clearance certificate before you submit your Student route application.
When your ATAS clearance certificate is issued, it is valid for six months to use in a Student route application.
Once you have used it in your application, it gives you security clearance for the whole proposed period of study on your CAS.

Check if you’re eligible and find out how to apply from inside the UK.
Read more Student route: applying outside of the UK The Student route is for international students who want to study in the UK – find out if you can apply for immigration permission from outside of the UK.
Read more Short-term students If you’re coming to the UK to study an English language course of between six and 11 months, you may need to apply for a Short-term Student visa.
Read more Sign up to our free email newsletter Stay in touch with UKCISA and get all of our updates before anyone else.
Newsletter type Tell us who you are...

You may be able to pay to get a faster decision .
After you apply You’ll be contacted if your application is complex and will take longer, for example because: your supporting documents need to be verified you need to attend an interview of your personal circumstances (for example if you have a criminal conviction) If you need to change something in your application after you’ve sent it contact UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) .
You can ask to withdraw your application by contacting UKVI.
Your fee will only be refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
If your application is successful You’ll get an eVisa (an online record of your immigration status).

You’ll need to link your travel document to your UKVI account.
This should be the travel document you use to come to the UK.
You may have to prove your immigration status when you travel to the UK Step 5 : Check what you can bring into the UK with you Check what you can bring in your hand luggage Check what to do if you're bringing cash with you Check what goods you can bring with you Check what food, animals or plants you can bring into the UK Step 6 : Check what you need to show at the UK border Check what you need to show at the UK border Step 7 : After you arrive in the UK You might be able to extend your visa to stay longer in the UK.

Student visa : Apply online - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.

Your bank statements must show that the full amount of money that you need has been in the account for 28 consecutive days up to the date of the closing balance.
This means that the account must not have dropped below the amount that you need to show at any time during the 28-day period.
If it does, your immigration application is likely to be refused.
In addition, the final date of this 28-day period must not be more than 31 days old on the date that you submit your application.
Maintenance must be in the form of cash funds and immediately accessible.
You cannot use evidence of other types of finances, such as shares, bonds, or a pension fund.

Certificate of deposit A certificate of deposit is issued by a bank to confirm that the named person has deposited or invested a specific amount of money.
As set out by the Home Office ’s guidance, a certificate of deposit is accepted if it meets the following requirements: The certificate of deposit must have been issued by a bank that confirms that an individual has deposited or invested a sum of money.
The funds have been held for the required 28-day period.
The applicant can access the funds at any time.
There are no further requirements for the certificate.

The Immigration Rules make it clear that the whole duration of your stay in the UK while on the Student route is counted, including: Extra periods of time added to your Student visa or permission before and after your course.
Any holidays or vacations.
Time spent outside of the UK.
Any time spent not studying.
Any time spent on a different level of course.
Any time previously spent studying on the Student route (including on Tier 4).
The Home Office's Student and Child Student guidance confirms that if your Student visa or permission is cancelled (formerly known as curtailed), only the period before the new expiry date is counted.

Below degree-level courses If you are under 18, the time limits are not applicable to your Student route application.
From your 18th birthday, you can spend up to two years on a Student visa or with Student permission studying courses that lead to a qualification below degree level .
You can spend the two years studying a single course or several courses.
The time limit applies, whether you apply under the Student route inside or outside the UK.
Time you have spent studying with any other type of immigration permission is not counted.

For example, there is no maximum time limit on how long you have held the funds, and a certificate is acceptable even if it has wording that says the funds are 'frozen' or 'inaccessible'.
Please refer to the sections on using your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) funds, and using your partner’s funds, if the Certificate of deposit is in either of these individuals' names for the details of the additional evidence that you will be required to submit.

You also cannot use an overdraft facility or a credit card.
Funds acquired in the UK must also have been lawfully obtained and cannot have been obtained if you were in breach of your Student visa or Student permission conditions, or in the UK unlawfully.
The bank statements can be for a bank account that is solely in your name, or in the name of your partner, or in one or both of your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) names.
Alternatively, the account can also be a joint account that you hold with someone else.
Find out more about the additional evidence required when using your partner’s funds and using your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) funds.

Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK × Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Help improve GOV.UK Sign up to take part in user research (opens in a new tab) Student visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your course Money you need Knowledge of English Documents you'll need to apply Apply online Your partner and children Extend your visa Switch to this visa Apply online You must apply online for a Student visa.

Student Other Member Email address Consent message By clicking submit you accept the terms and conditions Useful links Privacy Policy Terms of use Cookie Settings Contact UKCISA on UKCISA on UKCISA on UKCISA on The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) is the UK's national advisory body serving the interests of international students and those who work with them.
UKCISA is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (Company Number 4507287) and a charity registered with the Charity Commission for England and Wales (Charity Number 1095294).

If you do need an appointment: you’ll need to take your passport with you to the centre (you’ll be able to collect it on the day) you may have to travel to get to your nearest visa application centre (this could be in another country) Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it later.
Start now How long it takes to get a decision You’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision .
Apply inside the UK You may be able to apply to: extend your Student visa switch to a Student visa from another type of visa How long it takes to get a decision You’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.

If you wish to use money from any other type of loan, you need to transfer the funds to a bank or building society account in your name (or a parent or legal guardian's name) and use one of the other forms of evidence listed in the financial evidence section.
A loan letter must not be dated more than six months before the date on which you make your application.
The loan must be in your name only.
Acceptable and unacceptable financial institutions Using funds from an overseas bank account is permitted.

If the currency that you wish to rely on is either in Iranian Rials or Syrian Pounds, please refer to the Financial requirement casework guidance for the alternative arrangements that you will be required to use instead of OANDA.
You cannot use mini-statements obtained from an ATM.
The format requirements for a bank statement (either printed or online), and a letter from your bank or other financial institution can be found in the Financial requirement casework guidance .
Please note that the requirement for online statements to either be stamped on each page or to be accompanied by a supporting letter from the bank or building society has been removed.

If you are relying on using a joint bank account in which you are one of the account holders, please note that your name must be on the account along with the other named individual.
You can use more than one account if necessary, and you can use a combination of your account(s) and your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) account(s).
You can use an overseas bank account.
If your funds are not in British pounds (GBP), you should convert the closing balance into GBP using OANDA and the conversion rate on the date on which you make your application.
Write this sum on the statement.

Loans If you are applying for your visa outside of the UK, the loan must be available to you before you travel to the UK, unless it is a loan from your country's national government, in which case it must be made available to you before you begin your course.
Alternatively, the funds must be paid directly to your Student sponsor before you travel to the UK.
In this case, the living costs part of the loan must be made available to you by the time you arrive in the UK.
Any other type of loan will not meet the Student route requirements.

Check which documents you’ll need to apply .
Apply outside the UK As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity.
How you do this depends on where you’re from and what type of passport you have.
You’ll either: use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document - you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a visa application centre You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.

Its registered office is at Woburn House, 20-24 Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9HQ © 2025 UK Council for International Student Affairs

Student visa : Overview - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.

You can find full details of these time limits in the Home Office's Student and Child Student guidance .
Open all Close all How is the time limit is calculated? Both your Student sponsor and the Home Office use the same system to calculate the time limit in years and months.
Individual days or weeks are rounded up or down to the nearest month.
For example, three months and ten days is rounded down to three months while three months and three weeks is rounded up to four months.

If your official financial sponsor is a government and they have sent you a sponsor letter by email, a printout of this letter should be acceptable as evidence of the sponsorship.
The entry clearance officer can still ask for an original letter, so it is a good idea to ask your government sponsor for a paper copy too.
The list of acceptable official financial sponsors includes an 'international company'.
The Home Office has not defined this, but this means a company with a trading presence (an office) in more than one country.
If your official financial sponsor is not covering all of your course fees and maintenance, you must show that you have the rest of the money required.

Official financial sponsors Official financial sponsors include His Majesty’s Government, your national government, the British Council, an international organisation, international company, university or independent school, as defined in Appendix Finance and in the Financial requirement caseworker guidance .
The guidance sets out the requirements for an official financial sponsorship letter.
If your official financial sponsor is your university, you do not need a letter if the details of your financial sponsorship are on your CAS.

Seek help and advice from your Student sponsor before you make your application if you think any of the general grounds for refusal might apply to you.
Time limits Last updated 21 February, 2025 There are time limits, or ‘caps’, on how long you can study with the Student route.
Before a Student sponsor issues your Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS), they will check that your proposed studies will not take you over the time limit.
When assessing your application, the Home Office will also check that you will not exceed the time limit, unless there are "compelling and compassionate circumstances", such as injury or disability.

Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK × Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Help improve GOV.UK Sign up to take part in user research (opens in a new tab) Student visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your course Money you need Knowledge of English Documents you'll need to apply Apply online Your partner and children Extend your visa Switch to this visa Overview You can apply for a Student visa to study in the UK if you’re 16 or over and you: have been offered a place on a course by a licensed student sponsor have enough money to support yourself and pay for your course - the amount will vary depending on your circumstances can speak, read, write and understand English have consent from your parents if you’re 16 or 17 - you’ll need evidence of this when you apply If you’re 16 or 17 and you want to study at an independent school in the UK, you may be eligible for a Child Student visa instead.

How long it takes to get a decision You’ll usually get a decision on your visa within: 3 weeks, if you’re outside the UK 8 weeks, if you’re inside the UK You may be able to pay to get a faster decision - you’ll be told if you can when you apply.
How long you can stay How long you can stay depends on the length of your course and what study you’ve already completed in the UK.
If you’re 18 or over and your course is at degree level, you can usually stay in the UK for up to 5 years.
If it’s below degree level, you can usually stay in the UK for up to 2 years.
Read the guidance to find out exactly how long you can stay .

Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright

Letter from your bank, or a regulated financial institution As evidence of your money, you can use a letter from your bank or regulated financial institution in your Student route application.
Maintenance must be in the form of cash funds and immediately accessible.
You cannot use evidence of other types of finances, such as shares, bonds, or a pension fund.
You also cannot use an overdraft facility or a credit card.
Funds acquired in the UK must also have been lawfully obtained and cannot have been obtained if you were in breach of your Student visa or Student permission conditions, or in the UK unlawfully.

For further details concerning who qualifies as a partner and the evidence that unmarried partners may be required to submit to confirm their relationship, please refer to the Student route: bringing your family page and Home Office caseworker guidance .
According to FIN 5.1 of Appendix Finance , this means that financial documents can only be held by the following people in order to make an application under the Student route: Solely by you.
In joint names with you and with someone else.
In the name of your partner solely (if your partner is applying at the same time as you).
In the name of your partner solely if your partner has some form of immigration permission.

The guidance for permission to stay applications summarises that Home Office staff should be checking applications for: “...evidence of any adverse behaviour (using deception including false representation, fraud, forgery, non-disclosure of material facts or failure to cooperate) character, conduct or associations (criminal history, deportation order, travel ban, exclusion, non-conducive to public good, national security) immigration history (breaching conditions, using deception in an application).” The Home Office can also refuse your application if you have an outstanding debt for NHS treatment of £500 or more - see Healthcare for information about receiving NHS treatment in the UK.

Other general grounds for refusal include: Staying in the UK beyond the end of your immigration permission (being an overstayer).
Not attending an interview if you are asked to do so.
Breach of conditions , which means doing something your immigration permission does not permit you to do, for example working more hours than allowed.
The Student route application has questions about these matters and it is very important to answer them honestly, as not doing so can have very serious consequences, including accusations of deception and the refusal of your application and any future application you want to make.

Although relying on funds in your partner's name is permitted under the Immigration Rules, reports suggest that this is not reflected in any of the options when completing the Student route application form itself and that the only options in which to select are that the funds are in your name or the name of your parent(s).
If this is the case and you wish to rely on funds in your partner's name, you may wish to add a note in the free text section of the application form, correctly stating that you are relying on funds in your partner's name.

A letter from your bank or financial institution will normally confirm the balance and the length of time that this balance has been held.
As with a personal bank statement, the required funds must not have fallen below the required amount for a consecutive 28-day period.
The letter must also not be dated any later than 31 days after the date of your application.
Please note, if you are relying on using funds from a joint account, the letter must include your name together with the name of the other account holder.
Find out more about the additional evidence required when using your partner’s funds and using your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) funds.

Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only.
Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) .

This visa has replaced the Tier 4 (General) student visa.
When to apply When you can apply depends on whether you’re applying from inside or outside the UK.
Applying from outside the UK The earliest you can apply for a visa is 6 months before you start your course.
Applying from inside the UK The earliest you can apply is 3 months before your course starts.
You must apply before your current visa expires.
Your new course must begin within 28 days of your current visa expiring.

You may have to prove your immigration status when you travel to the UK Step 5 : Check what you can bring into the UK with you Check what you can bring in your hand luggage Check what to do if you're bringing cash with you Check what goods you can bring with you Check what food, animals or plants you can bring into the UK Step 6 : Check what you need to show at the UK border Check what you need to show at the UK border Step 7 : After you arrive in the UK You might be able to extend your visa to stay longer in the UK.
Check if you can extend your visa If you break the conditions of your visa you may not be able to come to the UK again.

What you can and cannot do You can: study work as a student union sabbatical officer You may be able to work - how much depends on what you’re studying and whether you’re working in or out of term-time.
You cannot: claim public funds (benefits) and pensions work in certain jobs, for example as a professional sportsperson or sports coach be self-employed study at an academy or a local authority-funded school (also known as a maintained school) If your application is successful, you’ll be told what you can and cannot do on a Student visa.

The full name and signature of the translator, or of an authorised official of the translation company.
The contact details of the translator or translation company.
Certification by a qualified translator and details of the translator or translation company’s credentials (if you are already in the UK and are applying for further immigration permission).
Parents’ consent if you are under 18 years old If you apply under the Student route when you are 16 or 17 years old, you must include a letter from your parent(s) or legal guardian(s) to show that they support your application.
This letter must confirm all of the following: Their relationship to you.

This is because the Immigration Rules include provision to refuse the application of someone with certain criminal convictions, under the general grounds for refusal (see next section).
You are not required to obtain or include any specific evidence relating to the convictions.
For further details about the types of convictions that you must declare, see the Home Office document Naturalisation as a British citizen - a guide for applicants .
This guidance is aimed at those applying for British nationality, but the information about criminal convictions is relevant to those applying for either a visa or permission.

Using your partner's funds If your partner is applying for immigration permission at the same time as you, the evidence of the funds used in your Student route application can be in your partner’s sole name.
This applies regardless of whether or not you and your partner are making an entry clearance application or a permission to stay application.
Alternatively, the evidence of funds used in your Student route application can be in your partner’s name only, if your partner already has some form of immigration permission.
The Immigration Rules do not specify what type of immigration permission your partner has to have.

If your country of nationality does not issue birth certificates, Home Office staff are instructed to accept documents that contain "the required information and is in English or is accompanied by a verified translation".
Therefore, you can use whatever official document your country of nationality issues as evidence of its nationals' birth and family relationships, even if it is not called a 'birth certificate'.
If your country of nationality does issue birth certificates then you must submit this as evidence of your relationship to your parent(s).

However, it is very important that as a low-risk applicant you still obtain the evidence of your qualifications and your money, even though you do not need to send them.
This is because the Home Office can request this evidence as part of its decision-making process and will refuse your application if you are unable to provide it by the given deadline.
Criminal convictions The Student route application requires you to declare and provide details of any criminal convictions, including traffic offences, that you have obtained in any country.

You can use any combination of the forms of evidence listed in the financial requirements evidence section.
Consent of current or previous official financial sponsor Your evidence of funds letter, if provided by a government or an international scholarship agency, must specifically state that your financial sponsor consents to your Student route application.
Translations If your application includes any documents which are not in English or Welsh, you must also include a translation of each document.
Each translation must contain: Confirmation from the translator/translation company that it is an accurate translation of the original document.
The date of the translation.

Next : Your course View a printable version of the whole guide This page is Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Step 1 : Check if this visa is right for you You can apply for a Student visa if you’re 16 or over and want to study on a further or higher education course in the UK.
You are currently viewing: Check what you can and cannot do on this visa Check what courses you can study on this visa Check if you can bring your partner or children ('dependants') with you If you're under 18 and you want to study at an independent school in the UK, you may be eligible for a Child Student visa instead.

You may be able to pay more to get a faster decision you’ll be told if you can when you apply Step 4 : Get access to your eVisa If your application is successful, you'll get an eVisa.
This is an online record of your immigration status.
Get access to your eVisa by setting up a UKVI account.
You’ll need to link your travel document to your UKVI account.
This should be the travel document you use to come to the UK.

This can be either: up to 1 week before, if your course lasts 6 months or less up to 1 month before, if your course lasts more than 6 months You must not travel to the UK before the start date given on your visa, no matter when your course starts.
Fees It costs: £524 to apply for a Student visa from outside the UK £524 to extend or switch to a Student visa from inside the UK You must pay the visa fee for each person that joins you.
Healthcare surcharge You’ll also have to pay the healthcare surcharge as part of your application.
How much you pay depends on how long your visa lasts.
Your partner and children You may be able to bring your partner and children (‘dependants’) .

If you have ever lived in Northern Ireland, you will need to confirm this when you complete your application, and the Home Office will contact you and ask you to complete a DAT1 form.
The form is an authorisation to run a criminal records check with the Police Service of Northern Ireland.
General grounds for refusal When you make a Student route application, there is a chance that it could be refused by the Home Office under the 'general grounds for refusal' (set out in the Immigration Rules).

That they consent to your application as a Student.
That they consent to your living arrangements in the UK.
If you are applying for entry clearance, that they consent to your independent travel to the UK.
If one parent or legal guardian has legal custody or sole responsibility for you, the letter must confirm this and be signed by that parent or legal guardian.
If not, then both parents or legal guardians must give their consent and the letter must be signed by both parents or legal guardians.

Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) An Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate is issued by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), which gives you security clearance to study certain subject areas where the knowledge gained may have application in the development of weapons of mass destruction (for example, certain science subjects, mathematics, engineering, technology or medicine).
If your course leads to a qualification at master's or doctorate level, a postgraduate qualification abroad, or you are a Short-term student , ask the university whether you need an ATAS clearance certificate for the course.

The Home Office has detailed internal guidance on the general grounds for refusal , with separate guidance for applications in your home country (entry clearance) or applications in the UK (permission to stay).

Staying longer in the UK You may be able to: extend your visa if you’re eligible, for example to continue your studies in the UK switch to a Student visa from another visa if you’re already in the UK switch to a Graduate visa A Graduate visa will allow you to stay in the UK after successfully completing your course for: 2 years if you apply on or before 31 December 2026 18 months if you apply on or after 1 January 2027 It will allow you to stay for 3 years if you completed a PhD or other doctoral qualification.
When you can travel to the UK You can arrive before your course starts.

Entry clearance means that you are applying for a visa from outside the UK and will use that visa to enter the UK.
Immigration permission means that you have a visa for the UK with certain conditions.
Student permission means that you have a Student visa to study in the UK.
Am I eligible to apply for the Student route? Last updated 15 April, 2025 The Student route is an immigration option for international students, including EU, EEA and Swiss students, who want to study in the UK .

English language tests (SELTs) If you are required to take one of the Home Office's approved secure English language tests (SELTs) as evidence of your English language ability, your SELT must show that you achieved the required score in each of the components during a single sitting of that examination (unless you are exempt from a component due to a disability).

Part-time postgraduate courses Higher education providers (with a track record of compliance) may sponsor part-time postgraduate study which leads to an approved qualification at RQF level 7 or SCQF level 11 or above.
Students on the Student route studying part-time are subject to certain restrictions: no work, no work placements, no dependants.
Study abroad Study abroad means you are currently studying a course outside the UK which is equivalent to a UK degree and as part of that course, you come to the UK for a short period of full-time study.
To check that your course is equivalent to a UK degree, you can contact UK ENIC .

Below degree-level courses Courses below degree level must involve at least 15 hours a week of organised daytime study and lead to an approved qualification.
These qualifications include, but are not limited to, A-levels, Scottish Highers, Foundation degrees, Higher National Diplomas, Higher National Certificates.
The qualification must normally be at RQF level 3 / SCQF level 6 or above.
If you will be studying at an institution which is a Probationary Sponsor and you are 18 or older, the minimum course level is RQF level 4 / SCQF level 7 or above.
The Home Office's Register of Student sponsors lists Probationary Sponsors.

There are five approved test providers that offer secure English language tests for the Student route: IELTS SELT Consortium LanguageCert Pearson PSI Services (UK) LTD - Skills for English UKVI (this test must be taken overseas only) Trinity College London (this test must be taken in the UK only) IELTS offer a number of different tests, but a test will only be considered to be a SELT if it was taken at an approved test centre and is an 'IELTS test for UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) purposes'.
These tests will have a UKVI number on the results certificate.
If you have any questions about whether the test you are taking is a SELT, then you should check this when you make your booking.

You can apply for the Student route if you’re 16 or over and want to study on an eligible course (further education, higher education, pre-sessional English course, a recognised foundation programme) or as a students’ union sabbatical officer at an educational provider in the UK, who is a Student sponsor.
Before you apply for the Student route, you must have applied and been accepted to your chosen course at an education provider in the UK.
Once you have been accepted, you will receive an electronic document called a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), which you must use in your application.

When you apply for the Student route, there are certain requirements you will need to meet and evidence you will need to supply as part of your application.
Essential definitions you need to know Last updated 15 January, 2025 A Student sponsor is an education provider, such as a university or college, approved by the Home Office to sponsor international students to study in the UK.
When it is first granted a sponsor licence, it is called a Probationary Sponsor.
The Home Office’s register of Student sponsors lists the institutions licensed to sponsor students under the Student and Child Student routes.

You cannot apply as a Child Student.
If you want to study an English language course which is below level B2 and lasts between six to 11 months, or if you want to learn English at an institution which does not have a Student sponsor licence, you can normally come to the UK as a Short-term student instead.
Re-sits and repeats Your institution may be able to to issue a CAS so you can apply as a Student to re-sit an exam or to repeat a module as part of your current course.
You will be granted enough permission to re-sit the exam or repeat the module.

Pre-sessional courses A pre-sessional course prepares you for your main course of study.
It doesn’t need to lead to an approved qualification, but it must be at the same minimal level as courses below degree-level or English language courses.
English language courses English language courses must involve at least 15 hours a week of organised daytime study and lead to an approved qualification at level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
If you are 16 or 17 years old and you want to study an English language course, you must apply for the Student route, or a Short-term student visa if your course is between six to 11 months.

Last updated on 11 November, 2025 On this page: Choose a section Introduction Essential definitions you need to know Am I eligible to apply for the Student route? Which courses can I study on the Student route? Your application Time limits Share: Share on X Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Share by email Introduction Last updated 01 April, 2025 If you’re 16 or over and thinking about studying in the UK on a course longer than six months, you can apply for the Student route inside the UK or outside of the UK , providing that you meet all of the requirements.

Student route: eligibility and requirements Skip navigation Student advice Student advice Topics Fees Visas and immigration Working Finances Life in the UK View all Popular articles Working as a Student Student route: eligibility and requirements Funding your studies Working after studies Accommodation Highlights eVisas Physical documents are being replaced by a digital immigration permission known as an ‘eVisa’.
Find out more Still got questions? If you have looked at our website and need specific advice, you can contact our qualified student advisers on our student advice line.

You may be able to undertake work placements as part of your course, depending mainly on the level of your course.
To apply to study a course at an education provider in the UK, visit their website to find the academic requirements and how to apply.
If the course you want to study does not seem to fit within the Student route requirements, ask the education provider for advice.
You might want to consider whether you can qualify for immigration permission under a different category which permits study, for example, the Youth Mobility Scheme visa .

Open all Close all Full-time degrees and degree-level courses You can study a full-time recognised UK degree or degree-level course which leads to an approved qualification at Regulated Qualification Framework (RQF) level 6 or Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF) level 9 or above.
You can browse the list of colleges and universities which award recognised UK degrees .
Their websites will give you information about their academic requirements and how to apply.
A course delivered through a partnership arrangement between a higher education provider and a research institute must be at (RQF) level 7 or SCQF level 11 or above.

Find out more Close menu Members' area Members' area Member Benefits Training and events Forum The Manual Practitioner networks Advice line Member newsletter Annual Conference Institutional membership Become a member institution Register to use our website Information for primary contacts Our members Codes of practice Top links for members Are you subscribed to our forum? Join us on the member forum to learn from peers and subscribe to updates direct to your inbox Find out more Book a training course today Develop your skills and gain insight into how to deliver a world-class experience for international students.

Whole site… Whole site… News Student Advice Search Hide search form Tell us what you think! Give your feedback on our new website here.
Homepage Student Advice Visas and immigration Student route: eligibility and requirements Student route: eligibility and requirements Here’s what you need to know before you apply for the Student route, an immigration option for international students who want to study in the UK .

When your Student visa is granted and you use it to enter the UK, you must study at the institution that issued your CAS.
If you currently have Student permission for the UK, or if you previously had Student permission (including Tier 4 permission ), or pre-Tier 4 Student permission , your CAS needs to confirm that you are making academic progress in your studies.
Which courses can I study on the Student route? Last updated 15 April, 2025 On the Student route, you can study a range of courses, but those courses must meet certain requirements including minimum levels of qualifications .

If you have already paid all of your course fees, or for study abroad or for another course with no fees, your CAS will confirm this.
Living costs The Home Office uses fixed amounts, which may or may not reflect your actual living costs.
If you wish to study in London, you will need £1,529 for each month of your course, up to a maximum of nine months.
This means that if you will be studying in London for a course that lasts one month only, the amount that you will need is £1,529.
If you will be studying in London for a course lasting nine months or more, the amount that you will need is £13,761.
If you are not sure whether you will be studying in London, ask your Student sponsor.

If you are applying from outside the UK for entry clearance or if you have been living in the UK with immigration permission for less than 12 months, you must meet the following financial requirements: Course fees You must have enough money to pay for the course fees for the first year of your course, or the entire course if it is less than one year.
If your CAS has been issued for further study on a course that you are already part-way through, the 'first year of study' means the first year of this new period of study.
The Home Office will use the details in your CAS to confirm how much money you need for your course fees.

Your application may be refused if there are any discrepancies between the information used by your institution to generate the CAS and the information on your application form, so contact your Student sponsor before you apply if you notice any details on your CAS which are incorrect.
You may obtain a CAS from several different institutions.
However, before you apply for the Student route, you must decide where you intend to study and use the CAS from that institution in your application.
At this point, any other CAS that you have been issued with will be obsolete, and you will not be able to use this in a Student route application.

Training and events Close menu Our work Our work #WeAreInternational #WeAreInternational campaign Our Student Ambassadors Student Charter Grants Scheme #WeAreInternational Awards Advocacy and policy Insights Our policy recommendations Student employability Working with agents Highlights Meet our Student Ambassadors Advocating for a world-class international student experience Find out more Adopt the Student Charter An international student led manifesto Find out more Close menu About About Organisation Meet the team Governance Join our team Tell students about UKCISA Get in touch Contact us Student advice line Register for email updates Highlights The history of UKCISA Advocating for international students for nearly 60 years Find out more Our governance Learn about how we are held to account by students and our members Find out more Close menu News Login Login Join us Show search form Toggle menu Search for...

Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright

Previous : If you're under 18 Next : When you can extend your stay View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Check if you need a UK visa Marriage Visitor visa Visa to pass through the UK in transit Explore the topic Study in the UK Visit the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only.

Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) .

Study in Finland | Doctoral Funding 🇫🇮 Skip to main content Main menu Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Home Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Search Breadcrumb Home Funding Your Studies Doctoral Funding Doctoral Funding Explore various doctoral funding opportunities and tap into diverse sources ready to support your academic journey and ambitions Share Navigating Doctoral Funding Options In Finland, there are no tuition fees for doctoral students, but you must finance your own living expenses.

Start at university departments for funding guidance.
They provide insights into paid doctoral positions and scholarships that align closely with your field of study.
Resources Check out the Research Council of Finland and Research.fi for research funding possibilities.
Paid doctoral positions may also be on offer - you can search for them for example via the Euraxess.fi platform, or on the universities' websites .
For further information, contact your Finnish university department.
EDUFI Fellowships - programme discontinued in October 2025 The EDUFI Fellowships programme for Doctoral students and researchers has been discontinued, so applications to that programme are no longer considered.

See the notification on EDUFI main pages: The EDUFI Fellowships programme is ending in 2025 .
Home Finnish National Agency for Education PO Box 343 (Hakaniemenranta 6) FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Study in Finland Study in Finland offers prospective students information on studying in Finnish universities.
Brought to you by The Finnish National Agency for Education.
Links About Study in Finland Studyinfo.fi Finnish Immigration Service Work in Finland ThisisFINLAND Follow us Facebook Instagram Youtube Spotify LinkedIn © Study in Finland 2025 Disclaimer and privacy policy Accessibility Cookie settings

UAS master’s programmes also need two years of relevant work experience.
Programme–specific admission requirements Depending on the degree programme, admissions may include entrance exams, SAT or GMAT tests, or interviews.
Make sure you check all these details with the university/programme you're planning to apply to, before submitting your application! Non-native English speakers typically must demonstrate their proficiency through exams like IELTS , TOEFL , PTE or Cambridge tests.
For detailed requirements on eligibility and admission requirements, check the Studyinfo.fi programme descriptions, and the website of the university.

Application advice at Studyinfo.fi How to apply to bachelor's and master's How to apply in joint application Joint application periods How to apply in separate applications Information on the application fee FAQ on applying to higher education You can also find information and advice on the universities' admissions info pages - and additionally at www.uasinfo.fi for UAS applicants.
Use of educational consultants If you are thinking of applying with the help of an educational consultant, check out our advice on this .
Admission Results and Next Steps After your application, universities will review and make decisions, with updates and results provided through Studyinfo.fi.

How long it takes to get a decision Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 3 weeks.
You can check to see if you can get your visa decision faster .
You’ll get an email when the Home Office has made a decision on your application .
This will explain what you need to do next.
If you need to change or cancel your application If you need to change something in your application after you’ve sent it, contact UKVI .
You can ask to cancel your application .
You’ll only get your fee refunded if the application has not been processed yet.

Links About Study in Finland Studyinfo.fi Finnish Immigration Service Work in Finland ThisisFINLAND Follow us Facebook Instagram Youtube Spotify LinkedIn © Study in Finland 2025 Disclaimer and privacy policy Accessibility Cookie settings

Accepted students will receive an admission letter with details on how to confirm their spot.
Remember, you can only accept one study place per term .
Once accepted, start your student residence permit application early to ensure a smooth start to your studies in Finland.
Home Finnish National Agency for Education PO Box 343 (Hakaniemenranta 6) FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Study in Finland Study in Finland offers prospective students information on studying in Finnish universities.
Brought to you by The Finnish National Agency for Education.

Proving your identity and providing your documents As part of your online application, you need to book an appointment at a visa application centre.
Allow time to attend your appointment, as the visa application centre could be in another country.
At your appointment, you’ll need to: prove your identity with your passport or travel document have your fingerprints and a photo (biometric information) taken provide the required documents that show you’re eligible for a Standard Visitor visa The visa application centre may keep your passport and documents while processing your application.

Begin your journey here! Share Register for the webinar here! Start Your Journey at Studyinfo.fi Begin your higher education adventure in Finland by finding your study programme at Studyinfo.fi .
The Studyinfo.fi portal is your one-stop for: Programme details Eligibility criteria Application guidelines Before applying for admission at Studyinfo.fi, make sure you familiarise yourself with the basics of funding your studies and student residence permit matters .
Also remember to check out the universities' admissions info pages - and if you are planning to apply to a Finnish UAS (University of Applied Sciences), also see Uasinfo.fi which includes specific info for UAS applicants.

Application Options Joint Application: Apply to up to six programmes with one application in January for autumn (September) study start.
Limited programmes are also available in September, for studies starting in January.
Separate Applications: For programs outside the joint application periods, details and application schedules vary, so check the programme search at Studyinfo.fi or connect with the institutions directly.
If you are a non-EU/EEA applicant, you need to pay an application fee .
Eligibility Bachelor’s Programmes: You'll need a high-school diploma that qualifies you for higher education in your home country.
Master’s Programmes: A bachelor’s degree is required.

Study in Finland | Bachelor's and Master's Admissions 🇫🇮 Skip to main content Main menu Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Home Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Search Breadcrumb Home Admissions Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Want to study a bachelor’s or master’s degree programme in Finland? Familiarise yourself with essential information regarding application and admission process.

Fee Maximum length of stay Standard Visitor visa £127 6 months Standard Visitor visa for medical reasons £220 11 months Standard Visitor visa for academics £220 12 months 2 year long-term Standard Visitor visa £475 6 months per visit 5 year long-term Standard Visitor visa £848 6 months per visit 10 year long-term Standard Visitor visa £1,059 6 months per visit Apply online Once you’ve started your application you can save your form and complete it later.
If you’re applying with family members, each person must have their own application and pay the fee.
They need to attend their own appointment at a visa application centre.

The earliest you can apply is 3 months before you travel.
You must meet the eligibility requirements and only do permitted activities .
Depending on your nationality, you may not need a visa to visit the UK.
If you do not need a visa, you’ll either: have to apply for an electronic travel authorisation (ETA) , which allows you to visit the UK for up to 6 months be able to visit the UK for up to 6 months without needing a visa or an ETA You can check if you need a visa before you apply.
Visa fees You can apply for a Standard Visitor visa, or if you visit the UK regularly you can choose to apply for a long-term Standard Visitor visa instead.

Brought to you by The Finnish National Agency for Education.
Links About Study in Finland Studyinfo.fi Finnish Immigration Service Work in Finland ThisisFINLAND Follow us Facebook Instagram Youtube Spotify LinkedIn © Study in Finland 2025 Disclaimer and privacy policy Accessibility Cookie settings

Visit the UK as a Standard Visitor: Apply for a Standard Visitor visa - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.

Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK × Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Visit the UK Help improve GOV.UK Sign up to take part in user research (opens in a new tab) Visit the UK as a Standard Visitor Skip contents Contents Overview Visit on business Visit to study Visit as an academic Visit for a paid engagement or event Visit for medical reasons If you're under 18 Apply for a Standard Visitor visa When you can extend your stay Apply for a Standard Visitor visa If you need a Standard Visitor visa, you must apply online before you travel to the UK and attend an appointment at a visa application centre.

If you've got questions or need a bit more guidance, check out the scholarship information on the universities' own websites .
Scholarships for studying in Finland - facts You may have seen posts and ads promoting “Fully funded Finland government scholarships” that would cover everything from university tuition fees to travel and living costs in Finland.
Be cautious - those claims are misleading.
Posts and ads like that contain a lot of false information.
Read more Home Finnish National Agency for Education PO Box 343 (Hakaniemenranta 6) FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Study in Finland Study in Finland offers prospective students information on studying in Finnish universities.

If you’re under 18 years old when you apply , your long-term Standard Visitor visa will only be valid for up to 6 months after you turn 18.
You cannot get a refund on the fee.
You may be given a shorter visa than requested if UK Visas and Immigration ( UKVI ) believe you cannot meet the eligibility requirements for the duration of the visa you applied for.
You will not get a refund of the application fee if you get a shorter visa or if your application is refused.
Your visa may be cancelled if your travel history shows you are repeatedly living in the UK for extended periods.

Study in Finland | Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships 🇫🇮 Skip to main content Main menu Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Home Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Search Breadcrumb Home Funding Your Studies Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Finnish universities and universities of applied sciences (UAS) offer a variety of scholarships or tuition fee waivers for non-EU/EEA students.

You can apply on behalf of your partner and child, if they cannot apply for themselves.
Apply now Your application will not be accepted and you will not get a refund if you have the right of abode in the UK (for example you’re a British citizen).
You need to apply for a certificate of entitlement instead.
Continue your application You can sign back into your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account .
Long-term Standard Visitor visas You can choose to apply for a long-term Standard Visitor visa if you visit the UK regularly.
This visa lasts 2, 5 or 10 years.
You can stay for a maximum of 6 months on each visit.

Documents and information you’ll need to apply You must have a passport or travel document that is valid for the whole of your stay in the UK.
There must be a blank page in your passport for your Standard Visitor visa.

You may have come across posts or ads about "Finland Government Scholarships" - these often contain a lot of misleading and erroneous information, so please read our scholarship facts ! Find Your Programme Start by picking the degree programme that interests you the most.
You can either find a suitable programme on the universities' own websites or on Studyinfo.fi .
Explore Scholarships Each institution has its own set of scholarships so once you have found a suitable study programme, you can check if the programme offers a scholarship for non-EU/EEA students.
You can typically find instructions for applying for a scholarship alongside the application information.

Share How to Apply for a scholarship? Each university has its own scholarship options and application process.
In some programmes, you can apply for a scholarship at the same time as you submit your admission application — making it easy to plan your studies and funding together.
In other cases, scholarships become available after you’ve started your studies.
These may reward your progress, academic success, or even your growing Finnish language skills.
Scholarships and tuition fee waivers may assist you in covering your tuition fees, however, you must independently cover your own living costs .

You’ll need to provide the following information in your online application: the dates you’re planning to travel to the UK where you’ll be staying during your visit how much you think your trip will cost your current home address and how long you’ve lived there your parents’ names and dates of birth (if known) how much you earn in a year (if you have an income) details of any criminal, civil or immigration offences you may have committed Depending on your circumstances, you might also need to provide: details of your travel history for the past 10 years your employer’s address and telephone number your partner’s name, date of birth and passport number the name and address of anyone paying for your trip the name, address and passport number of any family members you have in the UK a certificate proving that you’ve had a tuberculosis ( TB ) test if you’re visiting for more than 6 months You need to provide additional documents if you’re visiting the UK: to study as an academic for certain paid engagements or events (a ‘permitted paid engagement’ for medical reasons You must provide certified translations of any documents that are not in English or Welsh.

Students may also find internships related to their field.
However, finding employment during your studies can be quite challenging, especially without Finnish/Swedish skills.
What's more, possible part-time job salaries would not be sufficient to cover both tuition and living costs.
So you should not base your financial plans on the uncertain prospect of finding part-time employment during your studies.
Student Union Fees University students pay an annual student union fee of about €50-€70 per academic year, granting access to discounts in student restaurants and public transport.
Student union membership at universities of applied sciences (UAS) is optional.

Your Finnish university can provide advice on student union and health care fees, among other practicalities.
Student Healthcare Fee If you are studying for a bachelor's or a master's degree: in order to use the services of the Finnish Student Health Service FSHS , you'll be required to pay an annual student healthcare fee - currently around 35 euros per term (that's about 70 euros per year).
Home Finnish National Agency for Education PO Box 343 (Hakaniemenranta 6) FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Study in Finland Study in Finland offers prospective students information on studying in Finnish universities.
Brought to you by The Finnish National Agency for Education.

Links About Study in Finland Studyinfo.fi Finnish Immigration Service Work in Finland ThisisFINLAND Follow us Facebook Instagram Youtube Spotify LinkedIn © Study in Finland 2025 Disclaimer and privacy policy Accessibility Cookie settings

Prepare to finance your studies by paying the tuition fees and cover your everyday living costs.
As they say, good things are worth the price! Share Tuition Fees Non-EU/EEA students need to pay tuition for English-taught bachelor’s and master’s programmes.
Fees range from €8,000 to €20,000 per year, varying by university and programme.
Check specific fees on Studyinfo.fi or with the university you are applying to.
If you are paying tuition, you are often also eligible to apply for the possible scholarships offered by the university in question .
Doctoral programmes do not charge tuition, regardless of nationality.

Living Expenses Beyond tuition, you need to be able to cover your living costs independently.
Finland is a relatively expensive country to live in, so while the official minimum requirement set by Finnish Immigration Service Migri is €800 per month, we recommend you reserve a bit more for your living expenses, approximately €900 – €1000 per month.
This includes food, accommodation , and travel.
You must prove sufficient finances and insurance when applying for a student residence permit .
Is it possible to work part-time during studies? International students are allowed to work part-time up to 30 hours per week on average during the academic year and full-time during holidays.

Study in Finland | Fees and Cost of Living 🇫🇮 Skip to main content Main menu Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Home Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Search Breadcrumb Home Funding Your Studies Fees and Cost of Living Fees and Cost of Living Quality education is a valuable investment.