Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits - Universitetsläraren News from the world of higher education Swedish Sök News from the world of higher education Sök efter: Sök News Opinion News Opinion Newsletter Swedish News Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits There will now be the same conditions for international doctoral students as for highly qualified labour.
From 1 October, the Migration Agency will make decisions on residence permits within 30 days.
2025-10-09 Thomas Wederus Read this article in Swedish In January 2024, the Migration Agency launched a new work process for assessment of residence permits applications for highly qualified labour.
This model to also include international doctoral students from 1 October.
In January 2024 , the Swedish Migration Agency launched a new work process for assessment of residence permits applications for highly qualified labour, i.e.
people in management positions and occupations requiring higher education or advanced higher education qualifications.
The main aim was to reduce the processing times for highly skilled labour immigrants.
The Agency has now expanded this model to also include international doctoral students from 1 October 2025.
Christine Davidsson is Head of Section for Region West at the Swedish Migration Agency and a member of the co-operation group for the Agency and SUHF, the Association of Swedish Higher Education Institutions.
She explains to Universitetsläraren that international doctoral students will now receive a decision on their application for a residence permit within 30 days.
The Agency also promises improved service to higher education institutions during the application process.
“We see this as a prerequisite for being able to submit a complete application.
It needs to be easy for applicants do the right thing” she says.
Christine Davidsson Head of Section for Region West, Swedish Migration Agency Specially tailored information and instructions will be posted on the Migration Agency’s website to make the process easier for higher education institutions.
They will also be able to contact an information officer with expertise in doctoral student applications for help and advice regarding individual cases.
The new service commitment is linked to the Migration Agency’s appropriation directions for 2025, In which the Government instructs the agency to focus on increasing returns of individuals to their home countries and measures to combat fraud and abuse.
But it is also part of the efforts to make Sweden an attractive country for highly skilled labour.
“We must work to improve Sweden’s ability to attract and retain international expertise,” says Davidsson.
“It is against this background that we have made these changes.” Robert Andersson, head of negotiations at SULF, welcomes the change.
“This is great, and long overdue,” he says.
“At times, there have been problems with long processing times for doctoral candidates.
There is actually a requirement that decisions on study permits are to be made within 90 days, unless supplementary information or documentation is needed, and this requirement has not always been met.
So if they can keep this new promise, that will be great.” Robert Andersson Head of negotiations, SULF One particular concern has been long waiting times for permit extensions.
Doctoral students’ residence permits are valid for a maximum of four years, which means that they need to apply for an extension if their thesis defence is delayed or if their studies have been interrupted, for example because of teaching commitments, parental leave or illness.
If the original permit expires before an extension has been granted, the doctoral student is effectively stuck in the country and unable to participate in conferences or other research-related activities abroad, Andersson tells us.
“Although applicants have been allowed to stay in Sweden while waiting for a decision, they have not been able to leave the country and come back again, which has caused problems for many.” Another problem is that long waiting times are sometimes caused by authorities other than the Migration Agency.
For example, the Swedish Security Service sometimes takes a long time to assess applicants from Iran, Russia and China.
However, this kind of situation is not covered by the promise of a decision within 30 days, says Christine Davidsson.
“Our service commitment applies when we consider a case to be complete here at the Migration Agency.
If another authority needs to provide an opinion on the case, it cannot be considered complete at that time.
We cannot be responsible for the processing times of other authorities.” Last spring, a report was published by the SULF Doctoral Candidate Association in which some 40 international doctoral students were interviewed about their experiences in Sweden.
When asked if they would recommend other international researchers to come to Sweden, the answer was an overwhelming no.
Aimee Miles, spokesperson for the Doctoral Candidate Association’s board, told Universitetsläraren at the time that the doctoral students felt that they were hostage to arbitrary and mysterious bureaucratic processes.
According to Christine Davidsson at the Migration Agency, the new service commitment will hopefully remedy that problem.
“We really hope so.
Because it was very disappointing that they perceived it that way.
And we really believe that we will now be able to create the predictability and transparency that we are aiming for.” Due to improved efficiency, digitalisation of the application process and good collaboration with SUHF, Davidsson believes that a decision within 30 days is a realistic promise.
“As we have reduced processing times in general, we see it as entirely possible.
That is why we are introducing this now,” she says.
About the new service commitment On 1 October 2025 , the Swedish Migration Agency introduced a new service commitment for international doctoral students.
This means: Decisions within 30 days for complete residence permit applications.
Improved service for higher education institutions during the application process.
The service commitment applies both to new applications and to extensions.
It also covers doctoral students’ family members.
Thomas Wederus Universitetsläraren conforms strictly to journalistic principles and follows the media industry’s rules on publication and professional ethics.
The magazine is free and independent of its owner, SULF – the Swedish Association of University Teachers and Researchers.
If you have tips on issues that you think we should write about, you are welcome to contact us at redaktionen@universitetslararen.se .
You can remain anonymous if you wish.
Read more: Migration , Migration Agency , Postdoctoral researchers , SUHF Share: Related articles: Opinion , 2025-05-28 Universities must oppose migration policies News , 2025-05-08 International PhD students advise against doctoral studies in Sweden News , 2025-02-10 Easier for doctoral candidates to remain in Sweden News , 2025-01-30 Easier for doctoral candidates to remain in Sweden Latest news: “Particular elements of the system have been challenging” Opinion , 2025-11-06 Rare teaching hours News , 2025-11-03 Sick leave on decline within academia News , 2025-11-03 “The fact that we are afraid is of great value to them” News , 2025-11-03 A police science begins to take shape News , 2025-11-03 Sweden’s first doctoral student in police science News , 2025-11-03 Do you have a news tip? You can be anonymous.
Contact us News , 2025-11-03 Always available – but at what cost? For university teachers, the line between work and leisure is becoming increasingly blurred....
News , 2025-11-03 How to support students with mental health challenges Students are overrepresented when it comes to mental health issues.
By having the...
News , 2025-09-22 A thick managerial fog within academia Ten years ago, a manager at a state sector higher education institution was...
News , 2025-09-18 Commission of inquiry on organisational form appointed – despite opposition The Social Democrats, with the support of the Sweden Democrats, passed a parliamentary...
News , 2025-09-18 HE institutions in Northern Ireland struggling with underfunding This spring, Queen's University Belfast cut nearly 270 jobs, causing concern ahead of...
News , 2025-09-18 Involuntary flexibility when HE institutions renovate Flexible office solutions are increasingly common at universities and colleges.
Working spaces are...
News , 2025-10-09 Migration Agency aims for fast-tracked handling of residence permits There will now be the same conditions for international doctoral students as for highly qualified labour.
From 1 October, the Migration Agency will make decisions...
News , 2025-09-22 She studies everything that is bad about the internet Data scientist Lisa Kaati builds software that can identify toxic language online and has recently begun a collaboration with the FBI to use her models...
Columns , 2025-09-22 In line at the US border control As I stand in line at US border control for the first time since the change of administration, I feel a little more nervous than...
News , 2025-09-22 A playful quiz can breathe life into a fact-filled seminar Information overload.
Fact-filled seminars.
Cramming.
This common educational dilemma has many names.
There is no easy solution to the problem, but there are a few...
News , 2025-09-18 Audiobooks help improve students’ language skills Recently, there has been much talk of a "reading crisis" among young people, not least from politicians.
Two educational institutions that want to boost interest...
News , 2025-06-17 Vice-Chancellors critical of assignment to create citizenship tests Under the cooperation agreement between the government and its support party the Sweden Democrats, two universities are to help the UHR to design a citizenship...
News , 2025-06-16 “A matter of time before Trump attacks other universities” Proud that the university is standing up to Trump, but also greatly concerned for colleagues at other American universities after the president's attacks on academic...
Opinion , 2025-05-28 Universities must oppose migration policies Migration insecurities compromise academic freedom and research integrity in Sweden.
Universities must not be complacent, or complicit, writes Aimee Miles, spokesperson for the SULF Doctoral...
News , 2025-05-26 No increase in wellness allowance at HEIs The cost of a gym membership increases over time.
Meanwhile, a survey carried out by Universitetsläraren shows that two out of three higher education institutions...
Load more articles News Opinion News Opinion Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish Anders Jinneklint , Editor-in-chief & Publisher Linus Hellersted t , Editor & Deputy Publisher sulf.se Linkedin Articles and images are protected under copyright law.
Reprinting or other copying is prohibited.
Quote us, but please indicate the source.
Copyright © 2025 Produced by Torino News Opinion News Opinion About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish About Universitetsläraren Contact us Newsletter The Magazine Swedish