Sweden's Migration Agency pledges 30-day processing time for PhD students Advertisement Advertisement Swedish News Latest news Politics Immigration Cost of living Travel news Economy Stockholm Malmö Gothenburg Podcast Practical help Living in Sweden Work permits Moving to Sweden Residency permits Study in Sweden Visas Citizenship Living Costs Family Taxes Pensions Reader questions Learn about Sweden Sweden Explained Discover Sweden Swedish Traditions Swedish History Swedish Habits Food and Drink Language Swedish courses Learning Swedish Swedish Word of the Day Homes Property Renting Find Rentals Jobs Working in Sweden Find jobs in Sweden Topics Swedish News Latest news Politics Immigration Cost of living Travel news Economy Stockholm Malmö Gothenburg Podcast Practical help Living in Sweden Work permits Moving to Sweden Residency permits Study in Sweden Visas Citizenship Living Costs Family Taxes Pensions Reader questions Learn about Sweden Sweden Explained Discover Sweden Swedish Traditions Swedish History Swedish Habits Food and Drink Language Swedish courses Learning Swedish Swedish Word of the Day Homes Property Renting Find Rentals Jobs Working in Sweden Find jobs in Sweden Choose edition sweden All Editions Austria Denmark France Germany Italy Norway Spain Sweden Switzerland Membership Become a member Newsletters Help Centre Gift Vouchers Educational Access Corporate Access The Local About Us Contact Us News Archive Search articles All topics Advertise with us Post a job ad Get The Local App The Local Europe AB Västmannagatan 43 113 25 Stockholm Sweden Study in Sweden For Members Sweden's Migration Agency pledges 30-day processing time for PhD students Richard Orange - richard.orange@thelocal.com Published: 1 Oct, 2025 CET.
Updated: Wed 1 Oct 2025 11:07 CET Share 1 comment Students at Uppsala University enjoy the autumn weather.
Photo: Cecilia Larsson Lantz/Imagebank.sweden.se The Swedish Migration Agency has set a new 30-day target for concluding residency permit applications from foreign PhD students and their dependents, in what it hopes will mean better service for higher education.
Advertisement Sweden's government has ordered the agency to shorten processing times and increase the proportion of decisions made within the statutory time frame (in other words, within 30 days), especially when it concerns residency permits for work, study and research.
The new model for handling permits for PhD students is based on a similar process to that the agency brought in for work permits back in 2024 , which led to significantly reduced processing times.
"In order to increase the proportion of complete cases and thus shorten processing times, we are improving the service, starting early in the application process," Christine Davidsson, section manager at the agency, said in a press release .
"We are expecting good results which will mean not only that doctoral students get a response to their applications more quickly, but also that the application process becomes more predictable and transparent – ​​you will know what you are expected to do and when you are expected to receive an answer to your application." As part of the new service, the agency has created a new section for researchers and PhD students on its website, giving advice on providing a complete application which will qualify for the 30-day track.
Advertisement "The new pages include a guide that shows the differences between different types of permits for students and researchers, such as a description of the conditions, which permit is appropriate, how long you can get a permit for and any limitations," Davidsson explained.
Please sign up or log in to continue reading More #Study in Sweden #Education #Residency permits Comments (1) Join the conversation in our comments section below.
Share your own views and experience and if you have a question or suggestion for our journalists then email us at news@thelocal.se .
Please keep comments civil, constructive and on topic – and make sure to read our terms of use before getting involved.
Please log in here to leave a comment.
go 2025/10/01 14:01 How about speed up absurd waiting time for permanent residency for PhDs if Sweden values them so much? Waiting time is now 8 months, while for work permits it's 1 month! And this waiting time is a gamble on when they open your case and whether there's enough time remaining in your contract.
See Also Advertisement The Local Europe AB Västmannagatan 43 113 25 Stockholm Sweden The Local About us Contact us News Archive Search articles Find jobs in Sweden Find a rental in Sweden Post a job ad Advertise with us Membership Login Become a member Newsletters Help Centre Gift Vouchers Educational access Corporate access Popular Topics Latest News Malmö Gothenburg Politics Working in Sweden Learning Swedish All topics Get daily news straight in your inbox By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
We will use your email address to send you newsletters as well as information and offers related to your account.
2025 The Local, All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions