Apply for a residence permit to conduct research in Sweden – Swedish Migration Agency Start Layer 1 Search My page Svenska Menu Start You want to apply Work Employee or self-employed You want to apply Researchers You want to apply Researchers You want to apply for a residence permit to conduct research in Sweden.
If your family will be accompanying you, they can apply at the same time.
Listen Important to know How it works Apply If you are a citizen of a country outside the EU/EEA, you will in most cases need a permit to work in Sweden.
If you are invited by an approved research principal to conduct research in Sweden for a lengthy period, you must apply for a residence permit for research.
You must also do so if you have a residence permit for research in another EU member state and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden.
Researcher or doctoral student – which permit must I apply for? If you are unsure about which type of residence permit to apply for, you can use our guide: Guide for doctoral students and researchers Requirements to get a residence permit These requirements must be met in order for you to be granted a residence permit: You must have a valid passport You must have a hosting agreement with a research principal The research principal (the organisation that receives the research work) must be approved by the Swedish Research Council External link.
.
You must devote at least 50 percent of your working hours to research You must have enough money for your stay These funds must be sufficient both for your stay in Sweden and to pay for your return journey (at least SEK 9,700 per month).
You must have, or have applied for, a comprehensive health insurance policy If you will be staying in Sweden for less than one year, you will need comprehensive health insurance.
The insurance must be valid for the entire time you will be in Sweden and cover the cost of urgent and other medical care, hospitalisation, and emergency dental care.
It must also cover the cost of medical repatriation, if you need to return to your country of origin for health reasons.
If you are granted a permit for at least one year, you should register in Sweden’s population register.
This will give you access to health and medical care and dental care.
Prepare this before you apply Translate documents All submitted documents should be in Swedish or English.
If you have translated your documents, the translation should be certified.
You must also include a copy of the document in its original language.
Plan which embassy to visit to present your passport You may need to present your passport at an embassy before you can receive a decision.
In the application, you must therefore state which embassy you want to visit.
Not all Swedish embassies and consulates-general handle migration cases, so it is important to check which one you should contact: What country or territory do you live in? Select Select Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia- and Hercegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cap Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxemburg Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solmon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Türkiye Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe You must attach copies of these documents to your application Make sure that the information on your submitted documents is clearly visible.
Correctly made copies of your passport You can never be granted a permit for longer than your passport is valid.
Read more about what the passport copies must show Hosting agreement This document must be sent to you by your research principal.
It must be signed by both you and the research principal.
Hosting agreement for researchers in Sweden (231011) Pdf, 742.1 kB.
Documents showing that you have or have applied for comprehensive health insurance If you will be in Sweden for less than a year.
A copy of your residence permit card from another EU country If you have been granted a residence permit to conduct research in another EU country.
Power of attorney – if someone else will be applying for you A representative can apply for you, if you grant them power of attorney.
In that case, the person who applies for you must attach a copy of the power of attorney to your application.
Power of attorney (107011) Pdf, 1.1 MB.
Read more about power of attorney Documents to attach if your family is applying with you Correctly made copies of each family member’s passport Your family member can never be granted a residence permit for longer than their passport is valid.
Read more about what the passport copies must show Documents showing your relationship If you are married: marriage certificate, marriage record, or similar document.
If you are cohabiting partners: documents showing that you have lived together, such as population registration certificates, a joint rental contract, or proof of the joint purchase of a home.
Documents to attach if you have accompanying children Birth record or birth certificate stating the names of the child’s parents Sole custody decision If you have sole custody of your child, you must attach a court decision to this effect.
If the other parent is deceased, you must submit a death certificate.
Consent that the child may move to Sweden If a child has two parents/legal guardians and the child’s other parent/legal guardian will be remaining in their country of origin, you must attach a statement of consent from the other parent/legal guardian to the application.
You must also attach a copy of the other parent or legal guardian’s passport or other identity document.
Consent for a child to settle in Sweden (217011) Pdf, 1.1 MB.
Adoption documents, if your child is adopted Who can be granted a residence permit as a researcher in Sweden? You can be granted a residence permit as a researcher if you have a doctorate or are eligible to start a doctoral programme and are invited here by a research principal that has been approved by the Swedish Research Council.
External link.
A research principal can be a Swedish higher education institution, some other type of research institution, or a business.
As a researcher, you can also be granted a residence permit if you have a residence permit for research in another EU country and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden over a lengthy period of time.
You must devote at least 50 percent of your working hours to research In order for you to be granted a residence permit as a researcher, at least half of your working hours must be devoted to research.
Teaching or administrative work in the research group is not counted as research.
Who should not apply for a residence permit for research? People who are going to conduct research for less than three months If you are going to conduct research in Sweden for less than three months, you do not need a residence permit.
However, citizens of certain countries need an entry visa in order to travel to Sweden.
Countries whose citizens need an entry visa to travel to Sweden External link.
People who have a permit in another EU country and are going to conduct research in Sweden for a short period of time If you have a residence permit to conduct research in another EU country, you do not need a residence permit if you will only conduct part of your research in Sweden, for a maximum of 180 days in a 360-day period.
If you have been admitted to a doctoral programme in Sweden If you have been admitted to a doctoral (third-cycle) programme in Sweden, you must instead apply for a residence permit as a student.
You want to apply – Doctoral studies If you have been admitted to a doctoral programme/third-cycle programme in another country and are going to complete part of your education in Sweden If you are admitted to a doctoral/third-cycle programme in another country and will complete part of your education in Sweden, you must apply for a visitor’s residence permit instead.
You want to apply – Visiting Sweden for more than 90 days Citizens of the EU/EEA or Switzerland or long-term residents Other rules apply if you are a citizen of the EU/EEA or Switzerland, or if you have long-term resident status in another EU country.
EU/EEA citizens with right of residence If you are an EU/EEA citizen, you have the right to live in another EU/EEA country if you fulfil the requirements for right of residence through work, your own company, your studies, or by having sufficient funds to support yourself.
If you have right of residence, you do not need to apply for a residence permit to live in Sweden.
EU/EEA citizens Swiss citizens If you are a citizen of Switzerland, you can move to Sweden to work, study, start your own business, or live on your own funds.
If you want to remain in Sweden for longer than three months, you must apply for a residence permit for Swiss citizens.
You want to apply – Swiss citizens If you have long-term resident status in another EU country If you have long-term resident status in another EU country, you can move to Sweden to work, study or live on your own funds.
If you plan to stay longer than three months, you need to apply for a residence permit for long-term residents.
You want to apply – Long-term residents in another EU country If your family wants to move to Sweden with you If any of your family members also want to apply for a residence permit, they can do so at the same time as you.
“Family members” are considered to include spouses, registered partners, cohabiting partners, and children under the age of 18.
If anyone in your family decides later that they want to move to Sweden to join you, they must submit their own application afterwards.
You want to apply – Family of an employee or self-employed person who apply afterwards If your family is granted residence permits, your adult family members and children who will turn at least 16 during the current year are permitted to work.
For how long can I be granted a residence permit? You can be granted a permit for a maximum of four years at a time, but not for longer than the hosting agreement is valid.
You can never be granted a permit for longer than your passport is valid.
Your residence permit can be extended.
If your family is accompanying you to Sweden, they can be granted a residence permit for the same period as you, but never longer than the period of validity of their passports.
What does it cost to apply? Employees: SEK 1,500.
Adult family members: SEK 1,500 Children: SEK 750 Citizens of Japan do not pay an application fee.
You will not receive a refund if your application is rejected.
How long must I wait for a decision? If an application for a residence permit for research is complete, we will make a decision within 30 days.
It is not possible to say exactly how long you will need to wait for a decision.
There are many things that affect the waiting time, for example whether your application is complete to begin with or whether we need to request more information, or whether we need to check with other authorities when investigating your case.
Here we show statistics on how long it has taken for people who have applied for the same permit as you.
The statistics are based on cases decided in the last 12 months.
Complete applications 75% of recently decided cases have been decided within: 1 months Incomplete applications 75% of recently decided cases have been decided within: 3 months Can I get a residence permit if I am in Sweden right now? For most residence permits, you must be outside Sweden when you receive a decision about a first-time application.
In some cases, you can apply for a residence permit while you are in Sweden with another valid Swedish residence permit.
If any of the following describe your situation, you can apply for a residence permit while you are in Sweden: You have a permit for higher education studies.
You have a residence permit for research in another EU member state and intend to conduct part of your research in Sweden.
You have a permit for work or to run your own business.
If you are applying from within Sweden, you must submit your application before your permit expires, and the conditions for the previous permit must have been met.
If your application is rejected, you must leave Sweden If you are currently in Sweden and your application is rejected, you must prepare to leave the country.
If you do not leave Sweden voluntarily, you may need to regularly report to the Swedish Migration Agency in a process known as supervision, or be placed in a detention centre run by the Swedish Migration Agency.
Your case may also be handed over to the police.
Are you an employer? You can find information specifically for employers on our Employers pages .
You receive a research offer and a signed hosting agreement Before you apply for a residence permit for researchers, you need to have a signed hosting agreement, which your research principal will send to you.
You apply You fill in the application and attach the required documents.
In your application, you indicate which Swedish embassy or consulate-general you want to visit to present your passport.
Waiting time before we start examining the application Now follows a period of waiting until the Swedish Migration Agency takes a closer look at your application.
The Swedish Migration Agency processes the application The Swedish Migration Agency will review all the information about your application and determine whether you can be granted a residence permit.
If we can immediately see that you do not meet the requirements for a residence permit, we may decide to reject your application.
We will contact you if we need more information.
In some cases, we will contact your employer for further information.
Waiting time while we process your application Now you must wait.
Read more about waiting times Log in to My page By logging in to My page, you can access information about your application and use our services.
My page Present a passport and provide fingerprints Before we can make a decision about a residence permit, you need to present your passport.
You must also be fingerprinted and photographed.
This information will later be used to produce a residence permit card for you, if you are granted a permit for a period of more than three months.
Digital passport check In some cases, the Swedish Migration Agency will notify you that you must present your passport for a digital passport check via an app.
If you are granted a residence permit, you will be fingerprinted and photographed at one of the Swedish Migration Agency’s service centres once you have arrived in Sweden.
If you present your passport digitally, but have also been called in for an interview, you need to book an appointment to visit an embassy or consulate-general.
During this visit, you may also need to provide fingerprints and have your picture taken.
Read more about digital passport check Present your passport and get fingerprinted at the embassy If you are not offered a digital passport check, we will ask you to book an appointment to present your passport at the embassy or consulate-general you selected in your application.
If you need an entry visa to travel to Sweden, you may also be fingerprinted and photographed during the same visit.
You are waiting for a decision – You have applied for the first time You receive our decision As soon as we have made a decision, you will receive an email or letter stating whether you have been granted a residence permit or if your application has been rejected.
The decision will then be sent by post to your chosen embassy or representative.
You may need to book an appointment at the embassy to pick it up.
When you receive the decision, you can find out the reasons on which we based it.
If you are granted a residence permit, you have the right to live and work as a researcher in Sweden as long as the permit is valid.
If your application is rejected and you are currently in Sweden, you must prepare to leave the country.
You have received a decision – Work Have you assembled all documents? Be sure to provide complete information and attach all necessary documents.
The Swedish Migration Agency prioritises complete cases.
See which documents you must attach under the Important to know tab When you apply in the e-service, you can include your family in your own application.
Requirements for applying in the e-service To apply in the e-service, you must be 18 years or older have a valid email address be able to pay the application fee with a payment card issued by Visa or Mastercard be able to scan or photograph the documents you need to attach.
E-service for researchers To the e-service By logging in you accept the terms of use What does it cost to apply? Employees: SEK 1,500.
Adult family members: SEK 1,500 Children: SEK 750 Citizens of Japan do not pay an application fee.
You will not receive a refund if your application is rejected.
If you cannot apply in the e-service If you cannot apply in the e-service, fill in the form: Residence permit application for researchers (127011) Pdf, 920.6 kB.
You must also attach the hosting agreement, which must be signed by you and the research principal.
Hosting agreement for researchers in Sweden (231011) Pdf, 742.1 kB.
If your family applies together with you, each family member must fill in the form: Application for a permit for family members of workers, researchers, athletes or coaches and self-employed persons (133011) Pdf, 918 kB.
Submit your application You must submit your application at a Swedish embassy or consulate-general in the country where you live.
Remember to bring the documents you need to attach.
Not all Swedish embassies and consulates-general handle migration cases, so it is important to check which one you should contact: What country or territory do you live in? Select Select Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia- and Hercegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cap Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxemburg Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solmon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Türkiye Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe More information to prepare for your visit, such as information about booking an appointment, can be found on the embassies’ website: Swedish embassies and consulates-general External link.
You pay the application fee when you submit your application.
Once you have submitted your application, it will be sent to the Swedish Migration Agency.
If you apply from within Sweden, you can submit the application by post If you have a residence permit for research in another EU country and are going to conduct part of your research in Sweden, or if you have a permit for studies, a work permit, or a permit to run your own business in Sweden, you can apply while you are in Sweden.
In that case, you can submit or send in your application together with the documents you must attach.
Visit one of the Swedish Migration Agency's service centres, or send them to: Migrationsverket Box 3100 903 03 Umeå Sweden Pay the application fee Once we have received your application, we will contact you via email or letter with information on how to make the payment and how much you must pay.
News 2025-11-05 You can now visit a National Government Service Centre The National Government Service Centre is gradually taking over the task of taking photographs and fingerprints and checking documents.
They can also answer general questions and help you with your application.
2025-09-15 This applies to you who live in Lebanon and want to apply for a visa or a residence and work permit in Sweden The embassy in Beirut has had its migration operations paused since October 2024.
From 1 October, 2025, the embassy will not handle migration cases at all.
You should then instead turn to the Swedish embassy in Amman, Jordan.
2025-09-15 Changes for those living in Palestine who want to apply for a visa or residence and work permit in Sweden As of 1 October, the consulate-general in Jerusalem will no longer handle migration cases.
You should instead contact another foreign mission in the area that has a migration assignment.
2025-09-15 Changes for those residing in Israel who wish to apply for a visa or a residence and work permit in Sweden As of 1 October, the embassy in Tel Aviv will no longer handle migration cases.
Instead, you should contact another foreign mission in the region or within the Schengen area that handles migration cases.
2025-09-11 How you will be affected when extended passports become invalid We have previously reported that Swedish authorities will not accept extended passports from 1 October 2025.
Here we answer frequently asked questions about what this means and who will be affected.
2025-09-04 Children born in Sweden to people with certain types of permits can now get a residence permit without leaving Sweden Children born in Sweden who have thus never entered Sweden, and whose parent has a research permit, an EU Blue Card or an ICT permit, can now obtain a residence permit without having to leave Sweden.
2025-09-01 Higher income requirements for elite athletes and coaches As of today, 1 September, new rules apply to people seeking a work permit as a professional athlete or coach.
The rules have been developed in collaboration with the Swedish Sports Confederation.
2025-07-23 Extended passports become invalid on 1 October As of 1 October 2025, Swedish authorities will no longer accept passports that have had their period of validity extended by inserting a stamp or sticker into the passport.
If you have such a national passport, you should apply for a new one.
2025-07-07 If you need to apply for a visa, you can now do so in Islamabad As of 7 July, you can apply for a Schengen visa in Pakistan for short visits to Sweden by submitting your application in Islamabad.
The Swedish Migration Agency is responsible for considering applications from people who want to live in Sweden, seek protection or become Swedish citizens.
Our work is based on Swedish laws and international conventions, with a focus on legal certainty and effective reception and return.
Facebook Linkedin For employers For municipalities For other actors Contact us Help for those who are living with violence Word explanations About the Swedish Migration Agency Press room Other languages About the website Settings for cookies Proces­sing of personal data