What can
 I stud
y in Finland?
Finnish higher education consists of 13 universities and 22 universities of applied sciences (UAS). Altogether they offer almost 600 fully English-taught bachelor’s and master’s programmes in various study fields. Many PhD programmes are also available in English. Find the programme suitable for you at Studyinfo.fi!
How and when do I apply for admission?
You apply to bachelor’s and master’s online at Studyinfo.fi. Most admissions happen between November to January, for studies starting in autumn (September). As the exact application timetable and the entry requirements depend on the programme, always check with the university you are interested in - also regarding PhD admissions.
How about tuition fees and scholarships?
English-taught bachelor’s and master’s programmes have tuition fees for non-EU students, currently varying approximately between 4.000€ and 18.000€. PhD studies however do not have any tuition fees.
Eany Finnish universities have scholarship options for non-EU students who are required to pay tuition fees. You usually
 apply for the scholarship at the same time when you apply for admission. PhD funding options also exist!
What about my living costs and accommodation?
You are expected to be able to cover your living costs independently. We recommend you reserve around 800-900€ per month. While working on a student residence permit is allowed, you should have sufficient financing at your disposal - you might not instantly find employment to gain extra income during your studies. The Finnish universities can advise you on the local student accommodation options, as well as on other services they offer for international students!
Where can I find info about student residence permit?
If you’re a non-EU citizen, you’ll most likely need a residence permit for your degree studies in Finland. You can learn about the permit requirements and procedures on the Finnish Immigration Service website Migri.fi. Your nearest Finnish diplomatic mission can also advise you in permit-related matters.
Start your student residence permit process online at EnterFinland.fi as soon as you have received official confirmation that 
you have been admitted to a degree programme at a Finnish university.
How long will my degree studies take?
A bachelor’s degree takes approximately three or four years. Most university master’s take two years to complete, whereas some UAS master’s can be completed in one year. Note that UAS master’s require at least two years of work experience. A PhD degree typically takes four years.
Can I stay in Finland after graduation?
Yes - once you have graduated, you can apply for a residence permit to look for work, for up to two years.
Yes - once you have graduated, you can apply for a residence permit to look for work, for up to two years.
Find your steps to Finland!
www.studyinfinland.fi
October/2024
