Study in Finland | Bachelor's and Master's Admissions 🇫🇮 Skip to main content Main menu Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Home Main navigation Home Universities Admissions Sub-menu Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Doctoral Admissions Student Residence Permit Use of educational consultants Funding Your Studies Sub-menu Fees and Cost of Living Bachelor's and Master's Scholarships Doctoral Funding Life in Finland Sub-menu Accommodation Learning Finnish and Swedish Opportunities after graduation FAQ Secondary navigation News & Events Search Breadcrumb Home Admissions Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Bachelor's and Master's Admissions Want to study a bachelor’s or master’s degree programme in Finland? Familiarise yourself with essential information regarding application and admission process.
Begin your journey here! Share Register for the webinar here! Start Your Journey at Studyinfo.fi Begin your higher education adventure in Finland by finding your study programme at Studyinfo.fi .
The Studyinfo.fi portal is your one-stop for: Programme details Eligibility criteria Application guidelines Before applying for admission at Studyinfo.fi, make sure you familiarise yourself with the basics of funding your studies and student residence permit matters .
Also remember to check out the universities' admissions info pages - and if you are planning to apply to a Finnish UAS (University of Applied Sciences), also see Uasinfo.fi which includes specific info for UAS applicants.
Application Options Joint Application: Apply to up to six programmes with one application in January for autumn (September) study start.
Limited programmes are also available in September, for studies starting in January.
Separate Applications: For programs outside the joint application periods, details and application schedules vary, so check the programme search at Studyinfo.fi or connect with the institutions directly.
If you are a non-EU/EEA applicant, you need to pay an application fee .
Eligibility Bachelor’s Programmes: You'll need a high-school diploma that qualifies you for higher education in your home country.
Master’s Programmes: A bachelor’s degree is required.
UAS master’s programmes also need two years of relevant work experience.
Programme–specific admission requirements Depending on the degree programme, admissions may include entrance exams, SAT or GMAT tests, or interviews.
Make sure you check all these details with the university/programme you're planning to apply to, before submitting your application! Non-native English speakers typically must demonstrate their proficiency through exams like IELTS , TOEFL , PTE or Cambridge tests.
For detailed requirements on eligibility and admission requirements, check the Studyinfo.fi programme descriptions, and the website of the university.
Application advice at Studyinfo.fi How to apply to bachelor's and master's How to apply in joint application Joint application periods How to apply in separate applications Information on the application fee FAQ on applying to higher education You can also find information and advice on the universities' admissions info pages - and additionally at www.uasinfo.fi for UAS applicants.
Use of educational consultants If you are thinking of applying with the help of an educational consultant, check out our advice on this .
Admission Results and Next Steps After your application, universities will review and make decisions, with updates and results provided through Studyinfo.fi.
Accepted students will receive an admission letter with details on how to confirm their spot.
Remember, you can only accept one study place per term .
Once accepted, start your student residence permit application early to ensure a smooth start to your studies in Finland.
Home Finnish National Agency for Education PO Box 343 (Hakaniemenranta 6) FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Study in Finland Study in Finland offers prospective students information on studying in Finnish universities.
Brought to you by The Finnish National Agency for Education.
Links About Study in Finland Studyinfo.fi Finnish Immigration Service Work in Finland ThisisFINLAND Follow us Facebook Instagram Youtube Spotify LinkedIn © Study in Finland 2025 Disclaimer and privacy policy Accessibility Cookie settings